David Thomson: Said that the I think the general
architecture he was thinking of is

David Thomson: aligned with what we've done so far.
But he said the difference between Mutt

David Thomson: and Rambo was that um.

David Thomson: Mott has in its GB as like effectively
chapters,

David Thomson: but for each discipline who executes the
project.

David Thomson: So project managers have a chapter,
structural engineers have a chapter.

David Thomson: Instrumentation have a chapter and
globally they define like the best

Andrei Aitzhanov: Mm.

David Thomson: practice for structural design on all,
you know, mock projects.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Mhm.

David Thomson: So and he said the problem is Rambo
doesn't have this standardised way of

Olivier Doucet: And.

David Thomson: doing things.

David Thomson: Like fully, you know,
we're trying to do it in buildings,

David Thomson: we're trying to do it, you know,
Henning Larsen has it relatively good,

David Thomson: but we we don't really have this like
standard way of doing things.

David Thomson: So this is like the, the, the,
the workflows, the processes that we use.

Olivier Doucet: And.

David Thomson: And he said that was the first building
block.

David Thomson: And then like we discussed,
they build this like mother of all data

David Thomson: models which captured all these workflows
and users and you know the steps.

David Thomson: And then they build a.

David Thomson: Yeah, like a a thin client, basically,
you know,

David Thomson: as an interface that gave you access to
the tools and it it sounds very familiar,

David Thomson: but.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Mhm.

Olivier Doucet: Mm.

David Thomson: Yeah,
so he he he's got really good input for

Olivier Doucet: Yeah, that's quite.

David Thomson: us. Um.

Olivier Doucet: Yeah, the priorities and yeah,
the the different functionalities for me

Olivier Doucet: is really important.
So I look forward to hearing from from

Olivier Doucet: this workshop and what emerges as you
know the main, the main component.

Olivier Doucet: I think Mertz was listing some of this
capability in his.

Olivier Doucet: The answer and I think it was really good.
It would be great to have people converge

Olivier Doucet: towards what has the highest value and
also one key element I think for having

Olivier Doucet: this that I I read from his comments and
I totally agree is having an approach

Olivier Doucet: which.

Olivier Doucet: Is gradual and iterative,
and to have this successfully happening,

Olivier Doucet: you need to have a group of people who is
willing to test things as we go and to

Olivier Doucet: adopt it from.

Olivier Doucet: Early on,
so making sure we just don't have a a a

Olivier Doucet: team of people building it,
but also on the other end people who are

Olivier Doucet: actually ready to consume it and to use
it and feed feedback and not be.

Olivier Doucet: Frustrated in the beginning, of course,
because that's the challenge.

Olivier Doucet: People can be like, oh well,
we're gonna test it.

Olivier Doucet: And then it's first impression is, oh,
this is this isn't doing much for me and

Olivier Doucet: they lose patience and then as the
builders of the solution.

Olivier Doucet: We can't afford just being in a closed
loop.

Olivier Doucet: We have to have secured some people down
the line who are able to test things and

Olivier Doucet: maybe even pilot it a little bit in the
projects.

Olivier Doucet: And this is tricky when people are under
pressure because of deliveries.

David Thomson: Yeah.

Olivier Doucet: They don't have time to toy with new tech
and to to do this.

Olivier Doucet: So I think this is probably something
that you might have to, you know,

Olivier Doucet: deal with David, I guess,
and to make sure that we are solid also

Olivier Doucet: on on on that side.

David Thomson: Yeah, this is um.

David Thomson: It seems to be one of my key findings.
I I wrote in the our chat that.

David Thomson: On the GBAS,
they don't necessarily trust Ramble tech

David Thomson: to be like an an enabler to them.
So I discussed this with Peter and I said

David Thomson: look,
we have to make sure there's like a first

David Thomson: of all a co-ownership.
So UPE is owned by the GBAS.

David Thomson: Let's say the DDP chapter, you know,
the GBAS and Ramble tech,

David Thomson: and I really want to do some kind of.

David Thomson: Build teams which basically are a
combination of ramble tech people or DDPE

David Thomson: people and from the GP as and like you
said, the challenge will be they're busy,

Andrei Aitzhanov: GPS.

David Thomson: they're they're running projects,
but to like establish this kind of

David Thomson: embedded.

David Thomson: Concept where we embed, you know,
solution architects or a I experts or

David Thomson: whatever it is from Ramble Tech and they,
you know,

David Thomson: provide us with the business knowledge
and and we're kind of joint accountable

David Thomson: for each.

David Thomson: You know,
deliverable that that we we make.

David Thomson: But what's really clear is there's more,
unfortunately there's a little bit more,

David Thomson: not political,
but like governance and alignment to be

David Thomson: done, you know,
before we can kind of start going.

David Thomson: But I did say to Ronnie and and Peter and
and and Robin, I said, look,

David Thomson: I want to put in place the teams,
you know,

David Thomson: at least start to identify what are the
most high priority things to do.

David Thomson: And Ronnie actually had on one of his
slides, you know, project initialization.

David Thomson: This, this came up a lot.

David Thomson: Um, but yeah, I I would like to have.

David Thomson: The teams in place and then you know make
the request to have the the developers

David Thomson: and and the resources from DPE.
I have a budget it's something like 6,000,

David Thomson: 000 Danish kroner,
but I'm not I don't have full visibility

David Thomson: is this budget.

David Thomson: Just for DPE resources or.

David Thomson: It seems like the product owners are like
included in the price because they're

Olivier Doucet: Hmm, yeah.

David Thomson: paid for. Maybe things like UX designers,
I think we have to pay for internally and

Olivier Doucet: Yeah.

David Thomson: of course DPE.

David Thomson: So you you know you guys at some point
will be like some official internal

David Thomson: purchase order to have you,
but I still want to proceed as much as we

Andrei Aitzhanov: M.

David Thomson: can to to form as much as we can before
we get into like all these.

David Thomson: Purchase orders and I don't know,
it starts to get slower.

Olivier Doucet: Yeah, I am.

Olivier Doucet: Yeah, I agree. And things get official.
Some something,

Andrei Aitzhanov: Mhm.

Olivier Doucet: some magic is lost somehow.

David Thomson: Yeah, the the other one is um.

David Thomson: This A I topic,
so Peter brought it up as well.

David Thomson: So there's as you know A I has been kind
of looked at on a you know RAM GPT level

David Thomson: or origami, some point solutions,
some more general things you know like a

David Thomson: chatbot,
but it I don't get this visibility of

David Thomson: what's going on around the digital design.

David Thomson: Production.
I I know there's some people working on

David Thomson: some things,
there's some things in DPE as well,

David Thomson: but I don't have a good picture.
So I'm trying to build up this picture of

David Thomson: who's doing what, who needs what,
because we have this big contract with

David Thomson: Autodesk like a partnership agreement
where we've paid for consultancy.

David Thomson: And Ronnie's pushing me to say, you know,
don't necessarily spend this consultancy

David Thomson: on building, you know,
like productivity applications, you know,

David Thomson: try to be more strategic with this.

David Thomson: And see if you can get Autodesk to
deliver something more meaningful for the

Olivier Doucet: And.

David Thomson: UPE concept.

David Thomson: O.

Olivier Doucet: Did he?
Did he say anything more specific about

Olivier Doucet: that? Do you see what he has in mind or?

David Thomson: Well.

David Thomson: No, he didn't.
But I don't know if you're aware of this

David Thomson: together together for better outcomes
initiative with Autodesk. So Michael,

Andrei Aitzhanov: Yeah, you know.

Olivier Doucet: Yeah.

David Thomson: who works for me,
is the product owner for those

David Thomson: initiatives and it's like some of them
are UPE related like project

David Thomson: initialization.

David Thomson: Um,
some interoperability I think is in there.

Olivier Doucet: Yeah.

David Thomson: I have the list somewhere,
but they're quite low level um

David Thomson: initiatives and now.

David Thomson: I would almost say like let's instead of
doing 6 small things,

David Thomson: maybe we need to do one big topic.
And so the one topic that's come up from

David Thomson: Mert was this idea of they call it a
insight vault.

David Thomson: Um,
I don't know if I shared that with you,

David Thomson: but he sent me this PowerPoint. Um.

David Thomson: I'll share it with you.
I I'll share it somehow through our our

Andrei Aitzhanov: Mhm.

David Thomson: our loop.
Basically the in buildings they're trying

David Thomson: to build this.

David Thomson: Vault of project information.
So the you know, the costs, the estimates,

Andrei Aitzhanov: Mhm.

David Thomson: the building standards,
I think everything that's not like BIM

David Thomson: data, like not the model and the metadata.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Mhm.

David Thomson: And then they want to use this to speed
up their ability to do bids.

Olivier Doucet: Mm.

David Thomson: So he gives lots of examples of, you know,
this bid engineer is like searching for

David Thomson: four days, you know,
to get the pricing for concrete for this

David Thomson: bid and you know,
all these kind of things.

David Thomson: And they want to build this kind of
project information vault.

Olivier Doucet: And.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Mhm.

Olivier Doucet: Mm.

David Thomson: Um.

David Thomson: No.

David Thomson: All of the the competitors seem to be
trying to build the same thing.

David Thomson: According to this Autodesk workshop I was
at,

David Thomson: everybody says we need this project best
practices vault.

David Thomson: So that's one potential idea to let
Autodesk see if they want to work with us

Olivier Doucet: Yeah.

David Thomson: on this.

Olivier Doucet: Thank you.

David Thomson: But.

Olivier Doucet: OK.

David Thomson: But we kind of learn from that project
and then build a open version of that

David Thomson: ourselves. I'm not too sure,
but we basically want to engage with

Olivier Doucet: Yeah.

Olivier Doucet: Yeah.

David Thomson: Autodesk on on maybe a bigger AI type of
project instead of.

David Thomson: Um,
improving incremental things on on like

David Thomson: the product level.

Olivier Doucet: Yeah, no, no, I get it.
I think it makes sense.

David Thomson: And I'll share these things with you,
yeah.

Olivier Doucet: You have to be a big, yeah. No,
I just just wanted to say that my

Andrei Aitzhanov: Mhm.

Olivier Doucet: experience with Autodesk through the
latest years has been that you have to be

Olivier Doucet: also really careful because they have
tendency to drag you where they want.

Olivier Doucet: Want you to be. And so yeah,
making it very clear, you know,

Olivier Doucet: what we are looking for, what we are,
what we want and making sure they are not

Olivier Doucet: trying to push the agenda because they
have done that a lot and they got into

Olivier Doucet: that habit.

Olivier Doucet: So I think it's important to to
understand because in my view they

David Thomson: Yeah, well.

Olivier Doucet: haven't always acted in our best interest.
So we need to make sure we are clear with

Olivier Doucet: what we want and yeah.

David Thomson: Yeah,
I I I probably need your help to figure

David Thomson: out what we want because, um,
I don't have like a really good guidance

David Thomson: for them at the moment,
but it's it's coming up very quickly

David Thomson: because we have a workshop next week with
them to plan this partnership.

David Thomson: And already we I gave some push back on
the A I side of things and said no,

David Thomson: I think the use cases we're looking at
are like very granular like the ability

David Thomson: to talk to the 3D model for example and
and query the 3D model.

Olivier Doucet: And.

David Thomson: And I I'm trying to re-engage with them
and say no,

David Thomson: we need something a little bit more
strategic that supports.

Olivier Doucet: Mm.

David Thomson: It's the UPE concept,
but we're already doing the planning next

David Thomson: week, so it's a bit,
it's a bit time critical.

Olivier Doucet: Mm.

David Thomson: Yeah, I forgot what I was gonna say.

Olivier Doucet: Yeah.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Hmm.

David Thomson: But oh, see, sorry. Yeah,
I guess the most important one Ronnie

Andrei Aitzhanov: Yeah.

David Thomson: gave me very clear steerage.
So I think you guys,

David Thomson: because you've been involved in it,
we don't feel like a huge value from the

David Thomson: Datum POC so far and.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Mhm.

David Thomson: I think internally we agreed to stop this,
but the Autodesk still wants to push

David Thomson: ahead.
They're actually proposing now a a POC

Olivier Doucet: Of.

David Thomson: for the energy GPA,
but that basically I'll stop this and

David Thomson: what I agreed with Paul.

David Thomson: From partnerships is that we'll only
continue with datum if we have like a

Olivier Doucet: Yeah.

David Thomson: customer project where it makes sense or
a customer is asking for for that and

Andrei Aitzhanov: Hmm.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Mm-hmm.

Olivier Doucet: Um.

David Thomson: then we go to the next step.

David Thomson: But I do have a general question for you
guys like.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Mhm.

David Thomson: At the moment it's only a feeling.
I'm not too sure if we need this

David Thomson: information backbone to come from a
vendor. I I think we need some concept,

Olivier Doucet: Mm.

David Thomson: you know,
that takes the data out of the files.

David Thomson: But I'm not too sure if either Aviva net
or Datum is really fitting our needs

David Thomson: there.

Olivier Doucet: My my sense is that no,
I think we should own this more and and

Olivier Doucet: not have a vendor in charge of it.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Yeah,
I agree because I see that in our case in

Andrei Aitzhanov: specifically in Rambo,
we have very different GP as with very

Andrei Aitzhanov: different types of data business
workflows and and tools and data sources

Andrei Aitzhanov: and.

Andrei Aitzhanov: I don't see any solutions in the market
that can utilise all of these different

Andrei Aitzhanov: data sources in the same solution and
I've even not also I've even not also not.

David Thomson: Yeah.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Let's see.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Potentially it's not a product that we
will cover all our use cases because I

Andrei Aitzhanov: see that we have some legacy tools like
Octopus.

Andrei Aitzhanov: We have a lot of CAD tools including
Revit, Autodesk, including Aviva tools.

David Thomson: Mm.

Olivier Doucet: Good.

Andrei Aitzhanov: We have a databases,
we have a documents and etcetera,

Andrei Aitzhanov: etcetera.
And I think that it's impossible to find

Andrei Aitzhanov: some out-of-the-box solution that will
cover all of this potential workforce and

Andrei Aitzhanov: use cases for data import.

Andrei Aitzhanov: So anyway,
we need to build something internally as

Andrei Aitzhanov: our internal backbone and build this GBA
specific frameworks or GBA specific

Andrei Aitzhanov: pipelines for utilized data for each of
the.

Andrei Aitzhanov: At least because it's really,
really specific things and I don't think

Andrei Aitzhanov: that any vendor can support us with that.
So that's my.

Olivier Doucet: But I think they they they would probably
position themselves as they they have

Olivier Doucet: exactly what we need.
But for me this level of data we are

David Thomson: Mhm.

Olivier Doucet: talking about is kind of far from what
they are.

Olivier Doucet: They're coming from the design space and
the coordination and what we want I think

Olivier Doucet: is more generic than.

Olivier Doucet: And that is assessed how to organize our
data in a generic way so that we can

Olivier Doucet: harvest it better and we can point our
MCP server into. For me,

Olivier Doucet: if we have to work with a partner,
it would be more like a more generic

Olivier Doucet: actor like Microsoft or something that OK,
they help us with some.

David Thomson: Yeah, yeah.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Yeah, yeah, yeah, absolutely. Yeah.

Olivier Doucet: So.

Olivier Doucet: Maybe to put together an architecture for
some sort of data lake for our data and

Olivier Doucet: they have probably done that for many,
many other companies and it's nothing

David Thomson: Yeah, yeah.

Olivier Doucet: specific to the construction industry.
I think we are talking like such a high

Olivier Doucet: level,
so it doesn't have to be an actor of this

Olivier Doucet: sector.

Olivier Doucet: Might be better because they won't be
biased towards nudging, nudging us into,

Olivier Doucet: you know,
using their licenses and and all of that.

David Thomson: Yeah.

Olivier Doucet: So I see a big conflict of interest by by
using consultancy from Autodesk and other

Olivier Doucet: partners because you always struggle to
find line,

Olivier Doucet: you know how much are they acting in our
best?

Olivier Doucet: Interest in how much are they trying to
lock in lock us into the system so.

David Thomson: So.

David Thomson: I great to hear.
I I personally agree with you.

David Thomson: I think the challenge I've got is there's
so much momentum around this Autodesk

Olivier Doucet: I know.

David Thomson: partnership. We have just paid.
I had to sign the contract, you know,

David Thomson: on my second week.
So we've like already committed this

David Thomson: money to Autodesk.

David Thomson: So I I need to find the best way to use
that consultancy.

David Thomson: I'm not convinced that the current way of
doing it's right. Um.

Olivier Doucet: OK.

David Thomson: You know,
maybe I see it like it's this kind of.

David Thomson: I don't know,
maybe maybe it serves the bill,

David Thomson: the building GBA quite well because
they're pure Autodesk wall to wall or

David Thomson: more or less. But yeah,
so I think we'll need to put, you know,

David Thomson: more shape on all of these components
that we need to build.

David Thomson: And then I think there'll be like this
difficult discussion like how to justify

David Thomson: the cost of.

David Thomson: Building this, Peter seems very committed,
but he's he's also very, you know,

David Thomson: pro Autodesk and he's happy to spend the
money on Autodesk because he feels like

David Thomson: that gives us a competitive advantage to
be so close to Autodesk.

Olivier Doucet: Mm.

David Thomson: And I'll need to persuade him that,
you know,

David Thomson: we need to do some things ourselves.
This is the big topic as you know,

David Thomson: like how much do you allow your vendor to
do it or and and to be honest,

Olivier Doucet: Mm.

David Thomson: I guess you saw this news about the share
price of Autodesk and Bentley.

David Thomson: Um, diving because of Claude.

Olivier Doucet: I haven't seen it. Sorry, what happened?

David Thomson: So this, so this is super relevant.
So basically the share price dived off a

David Thomson: Cliff because Claude announced this legal
bot. So basically nothing to do with AC,

David Thomson: but the, you know, the stock market,
the analysts basically said.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Mm.

Olivier Doucet: Um.

David Thomson: Autodesk and Bentley's revenue would just
continue to decline because you know as

David Thomson: you know they're they're selling software
that you know relies on you having lots

David Thomson: of clicks and and and doing lots of
things and the more efficient you'll

Andrei Aitzhanov: Mhm, mhm, mhm.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Mm.

David Thomson: become at using.

David Thomson: You know, tools, the less tokens you need.
And this is actually reflected already in

David Thomson: our our our licensing apparently that
we're using slightly less because we're a

Olivier Doucet: Mm.

David Thomson: bit more efficient.
So basically the market is betting that

David Thomson: companies like Rambo will build their own.

David Thomson: Platform and build their own MCP servers,
A I data lake because it's it's so close

David Thomson: to our intellectual property.
It makes sense, right?

Andrei Aitzhanov: Yeah.

David Thomson: You don't want to give this to a vendor
and and that's why basically they're

Andrei Aitzhanov: Mhm.

Andrei Aitzhanov: No.

David Thomson: they're predicting these companies will
of course they'll pump up the price.

Olivier Doucet: Mm.

David Thomson: Like Bentley,
Bentley already asked us for 24% more

David Thomson: than last year, just for no reason,
just like that.

Olivier Doucet: Wow, seriously.

David Thomson: And Autodesk have been doing the same for
years.

David Thomson: So this for me is like the big topic
inside DDP.

David Thomson: You know our our vendors are going to
screw us because their business model is

David Thomson: disrupted.

David Thomson: We should start spending, you know,
less ultimately on our vendors and more

David Thomson: on our own internal.
But the problem is we're committed to

Olivier Doucet: Oops.

David Thomson: Autodesk and Bentley probably for the
next three years,

David Thomson: but we have to make this transition in
the next three years, which is.

Olivier Doucet: Mm.

David Thomson: Yeah.

David Thomson: Yeah.

Olivier Doucet: And yeah, I I get your point, David.
But I think that it should be more

Olivier Doucet: narrowed on on very specific things that
we can measure and evaluate because I'm

Olivier Doucet: afraid if we go like in this fluffy,
you know, make our AI already data vault,

David Thomson: Maybe.

Olivier Doucet: it's going to be such a fluffy thing and.

Olivier Doucet: It's going to take forever to get some
concrete things to evaluate.

David Thomson: Yeah.

Olivier Doucet: By the time you are there,
they will be asking for more budgets to

David Thomson: For the next year.

Olivier Doucet: continue and we haven't been able to
evaluate or to measure. Is this a success?

Olivier Doucet: Is this a fail?
I've seen this before and so I think we

Olivier Doucet: have to be real specific on OK,
these are the building blocks we

Olivier Doucet: identified.

Olivier Doucet: Would be best actually implemented by you
because this is closer to your system,

Olivier Doucet: but we have to have more of reflection on
the overall architecture and have them

Olivier Doucet: implement maybe these adapters and
components of this additional layer on

Olivier Doucet: top of the system.

Olivier Doucet: Instead of taking ownership of the
backbone, which I think we should own.

David Thomson: Yeah, yeah. So with that in mind,
do you have or maybe you can have a think

David Thomson: about what some of those specific, yeah.

Olivier Doucet: Yeah,
I need to think about it a little bit.

Olivier Doucet: But so I think what one thing that comes
to mind, but it's really not going to be,

Olivier Doucet: it's going to be peanuts compared to the
the amount.

Olivier Doucet: But it's around this automating the
provisioning of all of this and the

David Thomson: OK.

Olivier Doucet: permission and all of this.

Olivier Doucet: Things I know they have already templates
that you can use for seeding new projects.

Olivier Doucet: They have this approval workflows and all
sorts of things like that that are

Olivier Doucet: already embedded in the platform.

Olivier Doucet: I I don't know if there could be a a
layer,

Olivier Doucet: a thin layer on top of that to implement
a standardized way of.

Olivier Doucet: Harnessing these templates and this
ability,

Olivier Doucet: they have API also that you can use to
control to administrate a grant access to

Olivier Doucet: user. They have a lot of APIs Autodesk,
so we don't really use that.

David Thomson: Hmm.

Olivier Doucet: As much as we should, I think.
So maybe if we define this,

Olivier Doucet: let's say we have part of UB that's
responsible for provisioning projects and

Olivier Doucet: also managing onboarding, offboarding of.

Olivier Doucet: Of people in the project.

Olivier Doucet: At some point we want this when new
person is added and access needs to be

Olivier Doucet: granted to something.

Olivier Doucet: We want to have a unique interface
regardless of the vendor,

Olivier Doucet: so do we need to actually?

Olivier Doucet: Establish some some sort of.

Olivier Doucet: High-level API that is our own way of
saying we want to grant access to this

David Thomson: Yeah.

Olivier Doucet: role. I mean,
maybe it's it's just a detail, you know,

Olivier Doucet: in this ocean of abilities,
but that's just one thing I can think of.

David Thomson: It makes sense to me.
It's probably at the end of the day,

David Thomson: some kind of combination, but um.

Olivier Doucet: What else could could it be?

David Thomson: What?

David Thomson: Yeah,
when when you provision to Autodesk

David Thomson: mandate like one cloud provider,
do they is it always AWS or is it always

David Thomson: Azure or are they flexible for example?

Olivier Doucet: Sorry,
what what they use themselves as AWSI

David Thomson: Yeah, OK.

Olivier Doucet: think.

Olivier Doucet: But uh, yeah,
that's that's what I will allow as far as

Olivier Doucet: I know.

Olivier Doucet: Um.

David Thomson: All right, let let's come back to that.
But I I I would like your input on,

David Thomson: you know,
what might those specific layers be or

David Thomson: because I don't have good visibility of
what those those are at the moment.

Olivier Doucet: Mm.

Olivier Doucet: No, but yeah, I'll think about it. Let's,
let's discuss this further. We have,

Olivier Doucet: we have a meeting also in a couple of
days, right on on Thursday.

David Thomson: But it's.

David Thomson: Yeah.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Yeah, without a risk in. Yeah, I think so.

Olivier Doucet: Uh.

David Thomson: So you did something around terms and
definitions. Yeah, I've got it.

Andrei Aitzhanov: So.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Yeah, yeah,
just to let's try to back to our main

Andrei Aitzhanov: agenda and I actually try to update some
of the pages in our whole environment.

David Thomson: Yeah.

Andrei Aitzhanov: So I I try to include the yeah,
this section just to understand.

Andrei Aitzhanov: What we are talking about because
sometimes it's really difficult to to

Andrei Aitzhanov: discuss something if you don't understand
the the basic ideas and for sure it's

Andrei Aitzhanov: it's just a proposal,
it's not a statement, but what I tried.

Andrei Aitzhanov: To say that actually a unified production
environment,

Andrei Aitzhanov: it's a kind of a global digital backbone
for us, for Amble globally,

Andrei Aitzhanov: for all Gbas and the main idea,
at least for me, that that looks logical.

Andrei Aitzhanov: To me that the main idea that it's kind
of parameterized constructor that you can

Andrei Aitzhanov: use for engineers, it's for engineers,
it's not primary, it's for engineers.

David Thomson: Mhm.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Yeah,
the idea that we need to reuse and

Andrei Aitzhanov: utilize the the solutions and and.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Best practices that we already had before
in previous projects,

Andrei Aitzhanov: but somehow we need to utilise and you
need we need to incorporate this this

Andrei Aitzhanov: knowledge into the common database.

Andrei Aitzhanov: And use this as a framework for future
projects.

Andrei Aitzhanov: But the idea that it should be
parameterized,

Andrei Aitzhanov: sorry for my English parameterized
solution that that's means that let's

Andrei Aitzhanov: imagine that we have a client that wants
to have a building.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Commercial building like a commercial
centre or data centre,

Andrei Aitzhanov: but before with the previous client we
had a similar project, yeah,

Andrei Aitzhanov: but with a bit different parameters and a
bit different conditions.

Andrei Aitzhanov: And now based on the requirements from
new client,

Andrei Aitzhanov: we can utilize and reuse the previously
used design,

Andrei Aitzhanov: but based on the requirements of the new
client, we can parameterize this and.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Modify this,
this and build another instance or

Andrei Aitzhanov: individual project just to this client,
but the core of this design and and all

Andrei Aitzhanov: basic.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Connections are now basic ideas and
fundamental things will will be the same

Andrei Aitzhanov: because we are using absolutely the same
principles. I mean like construction,

Andrei Aitzhanov: calculations, principles or.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Positioning of the rooms in the building
or something like that,

Andrei Aitzhanov: that that's what I'm trying to say that
it's it's kind of parametric tool or kind

Andrei Aitzhanov: of parametric database,
knowledge database that users and

Andrei Aitzhanov: engineers can use.

Andrei Aitzhanov: For build new design,
but based on the previously defined

Andrei Aitzhanov: building blocks or or parametric blocks,
it's actually very similar that what you

Andrei Aitzhanov: have in case if you want to have a car.

Andrei Aitzhanov: And all of these huge companies like BMW
or Mercedes,

Andrei Aitzhanov: they they have a website and you can
specify. I want, yeah, configure, yeah,

Olivier Doucet: Configure.

Andrei Aitzhanov: you want to have this engine with this
power and this kind of internal design of

David Thomson: Yeah.

Andrei Aitzhanov: the of your car or outside.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Side exterior and etcetera and you can
configure this and and have your

Andrei Aitzhanov: individual instance or individual car
based on your request and then the idea

Andrei Aitzhanov: that the the the platform.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Will be absolutely the same,
but this individual things will be

Andrei Aitzhanov: parameterized based on the your request.
That's what I'm also thinking as a very

Andrei Aitzhanov: fundamental idea of this that we can try
to to utilize and reuse already developed

Andrei Aitzhanov: and already.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Prepared building blocks that can be
connected and then we can define another

Olivier Doucet: Mm.

Andrei Aitzhanov: project for this individual client. Yeah,
yeah.

Olivier Doucet: But there are, Andrei,
already a lot of this parametric

Olivier Doucet: computational design building blocks in
in rubble we have.

Olivier Doucet: I think what we're missing is maybe it's
not at the same scale as you are talking

Olivier Doucet: about it.
You're talking about the project scale.

Olivier Doucet: I'm thinking more, you know,
within disciplines.

Olivier Doucet: They have like specialized components to
do this and that and I think already you

Olivier Doucet: know having these existing things
available,

Olivier Doucet: made available through a single portal
and connecting this and making it

Olivier Doucet: available within the context of the
discipline.

Olivier Doucet: The way it was described by Mert,
I like this gateway image where you log

Olivier Doucet: in and depending on who you are and the
discipline and what you then and the

Andrei Aitzhanov: Mm-hmm. Yeah.

Olivier Doucet: projects you are onto,
you have this kind of central dashboard

Olivier Doucet: that is the entry points to the different
things and you can access also the

Olivier Doucet: software components.

Olivier Doucet: That we have already implemented.
So having this software distribution and

Olivier Doucet: suggestion is maybe already you know
initial step because I don't know the way

Olivier Doucet: you describe it at the scale of a project.

Olivier Doucet: How much complexity?
How much you can reuse?

Olivier Doucet: You don't want to make it too rigid
because then it becomes unusable.

Olivier Doucet: How do you see this?
What's the scale of this parameterization

Oh.

Olivier Doucet: you're talking about?

Andrei Aitzhanov: Yeah,
it depends on the type of the project for

Andrei Aitzhanov: sure.
But I can see that for instance for

Andrei Aitzhanov: offshore substations projects,
it's quite typical.

Olivier Doucet: Yeah.

Andrei Aitzhanov: It's quite typical because they have a,
yes,

Andrei Aitzhanov: that the positioning of the equipment on
the site and the connections can be.

Olivier Doucet: Hi.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Different but the process foundation and
process schema will will be the same and

Olivier Doucet: Hmm.

Andrei Aitzhanov: and for instance you can deliver to the
client.

Andrei Aitzhanov: The project in several iterations. Yeah,
we've client wants to have substation at

Andrei Aitzhanov: this in this place with these conditions
and this power. Yeah,

Andrei Aitzhanov: and you can define like a parametric
request to to the UP that I want to build.

Andrei Aitzhanov: This prototype or MVP based on this
request and this conditions and then

Andrei Aitzhanov: system will generate this I would say
parametric design solution and then you

Andrei Aitzhanov: can for sure digitalise this.
It's kind of iteration.

Andrei Aitzhanov: You you can build the first prototype and
then you for sure you can data wise or

Andrei Aitzhanov: you can reuse individual.
I would say typical small components of

Andrei Aitzhanov: this. For instance,
you have a different types of connections

Andrei Aitzhanov: of pipelines to the to the nozzles.

Olivier Doucet: Hmm.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Yeah.
And based on your previous experience,

Andrei Aitzhanov: we know exactly that this type of
connections are not so good or it's quite

Andrei Aitzhanov: expensive and we don't have enough
proposals from the market.

Andrei Aitzhanov: And engineers can ask that, OK,
I want to connect my pipeline to this

Andrei Aitzhanov: nozzle.
So and then this tool can suggest or

Andrei Aitzhanov: provide kind of options and or proposals
what you can use based on the previous

Andrei Aitzhanov: experience and that that's.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Another level of knowledge, yeah,
another level of typical solutions.

Andrei Aitzhanov: And then you can go step by step to the
from the high level to the this

Andrei Aitzhanov: individual low level and aggregate all
knowledge in the common database,

Andrei Aitzhanov: but then it will be utilized and reused
in the different levels of of the

Andrei Aitzhanov: compositions.

Andrei Aitzhanov: So, but I've worked before some two years.
I worked in the buildings company,

Andrei Aitzhanov: building structure company that they they
did, they built the buildings,

Andrei Aitzhanov: mass living buildings for.

Andrei Aitzhanov: It's 25 levels of buildings, yeah,
with very typical topology of the these

Andrei Aitzhanov: buildings and and the idea was that you
can actually define the place,

Andrei Aitzhanov: you can define amount of levels and you
can define how many.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Spaces square meters you want to get from
this building finally and then based on

Andrei Aitzhanov: this this generate generic or sorry
generative parametric engine will build

Olivier Doucet: Yeah.

Andrei Aitzhanov: and generate for you this building and
then you can use it as a prototype for.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Data wise, redefine the components,
reconnect these components and etcetera.

Andrei Aitzhanov: That's idea what I keep in mind that we
can maybe try to reuse the same idea here

Andrei Aitzhanov: because I see that the the biggest
problem that.

Andrei Aitzhanov: People don't really know what is the best
solution for this kind of projects and

Andrei Aitzhanov: every time what we are spending a lot of
time for find the best practices,

Andrei Aitzhanov: the best solutions for this specific one.

Andrei Aitzhanov: But actually we did the same previously.
Why we need to spend it again this time

Andrei Aitzhanov: we can use what we we we did already this
idea.

Andrei Aitzhanov: But again it's just my my yeah what I
keeping.

David Thomson: I have some some some input.
So this feels very the so because the so

David Thomson: we're quite good at doing like parametric.
They have like a parametric engine in

David Thomson: their CAD tools,
so it's very easy to do this kind of

David Thomson: stuff and funnily enough I did
substations.

David Thomson: With this tool like for Hydro Quebec.
So basically we had an Excel sheet with

David Thomson: all the parameters external from CATIA
and you could drive like different

Andrei Aitzhanov: Mhm.

David Thomson: layouts and all these kind of things.
It was very advanced. This actually, um,

David Thomson: I don't think this is the only way UBE
works of course.

David Thomson: But it's it's actually a good idea
because Peter mentioned, I asked him,

Andrei Aitzhanov: Yeah, yeah.

David Thomson: I said what's going on like really high
level across the GP as like what's,

David Thomson: you know, what's what's our market like?
And he said in buildings it's like race

David Thomson: to the bottom.

David Thomson: Commoditisation.
So most of the building projects are,

David Thomson: you know, like block of flats, you know,
office block and you know,

David Thomson: we we were walking down the road here.
Everything just looks the same, like copy,

David Thomson: paste, copy,
paste with a different facade, right?

David Thomson: Different windows, different details.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Yeah, yeah, yeah.

Olivier Doucet: Mhm.

David Thomson: And we were like,
why is this not like done with, you know,

David Thomson: generative design already?
Like it looks easy when you look at it.

David Thomson: So actually this idea is not completely
bad at all for the building's GBA because

David Thomson: they're basically they're racing to the
bottom on price.

David Thomson: So they they just needed to.

David Thomson: Deliver more projects for less money.
That's the if you like the the

Andrei Aitzhanov: Yeah.

Olivier Doucet: Mm.

David Thomson: overarching strategy.
If it worked for energy as well,

David Thomson: fantastic, you know,
because ultimately I think energy's

David Thomson: getting into this race to the bottom,
at least in in renewables. Um.

David Thomson: So we should keep this idea, Um, I think.

David Thomson: The interesting thing is, you know, Peter,
of course from his like limited

David Thomson: technological view,
he just thinks this is AI,

David Thomson: but it's it's it's maybe not, you know,
maybe it's it's it's parametric design.

Olivier Doucet: Mm.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Or machine learning. Thanks.

David Thomson: Exactly. It's a machine learning.
It's a bit of both. The thing is,

Olivier Doucet: Or or both.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Yeah.

David Thomson: it's so let's keep this definitely let's
keep this idea because I think it's

Andrei Aitzhanov: Yep, that's.

David Thomson: something to aim for,
for at least for the building's GPA.

David Thomson: The other thing, just so you know,
like I'll add this on the on this page in

David Thomson: the loop.

David Thomson: But.

David Thomson: You know,
UPE for Peter is we maybe need to

David Thomson: differentiate from UPE as the business
initiative because I have loads of

David Thomson: stakeholders like in terms of how we work
process excellence.

David Thomson: All all these things which are not really
technical,

Andrei Aitzhanov: Mm-hmm.

David Thomson: but then there's the UPE platform.
So I think we should probably try to use

David Thomson: this terminology.
We talk about UPE as the business

David Thomson: initiative which delivers transformation.

David Thomson: That's not even digital transformation,
because some of it's about people and

David Thomson: processes.
Some of it is digital transformation,

David Thomson: like parametric, you know, parametric,
automatically generated buildings,

David Thomson: something like that is is digital and we
should start to refer to.

Olivier Doucet: Mhm.

David Thomson: The UPE platform as the thing that as the
thing that we built at least in our

Olivier Doucet: I agree.

Olivier Doucet: Yeah.

David Thomson: circles because it gets confusing because
at the moment I'm only engaging on the

Olivier Doucet: Yeah.

David Thomson: UPE business initiative level with the
stakeholders.

Olivier Doucet: Yeah.

David Thomson: But I I want to build like the team to
make the platform as well so.

Olivier Doucet: Right. So I think we need a name for it.
What's the UP platform?

David Thomson: Yeah.

Olivier Doucet: Is it just UP platform or it's a?

David Thomson: Let's get, yeah, well, let's again,
we can have a competition.

David Thomson: If you come up with a good name,
very happy because I need to put this on

Olivier Doucet: OK.

David Thomson: the product lifecycle.
There's this you probably know about this,

David Thomson: the product lifecycle process.

David Thomson: So do I need to name these things
explicitly?

Olivier Doucet: Yeah, yeah, of course.
And I think it you need a name for the

Olivier Doucet: the platform or let's call it the UP
platform for now.

David Thomson: Yeah.

Olivier Doucet: And then this will be I think made of
several modules that can grow.

Olivier Doucet: So I think each module within the
platform becomes its own product.

David Thomson: Yeah.

Olivier Doucet: So I think and already already now I
think we can identify such products and

David Thomson: And.

Olivier Doucet: and those that can be built in connection
with with together with our partners like

Olivier Doucet: Autodesk you mentioned we have some
budget what kind of product.

Olivier Doucet: Can we be together with them or can we
even fully delegate to them? I don't know.

David Thomson: Yeah.

David Thomson: Yeah, take your time.
I think have a proper think about that.

David Thomson: And I will too. Um.

Olivier Doucet: Yeah.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Yeah,
and I also would would show you this.

David Thomson: Oh, on this note,
because I have a meeting with Microsoft

David Thomson: because I I realized it's like a key
partner and basically I'll introduce this

David Thomson: concept of UPE and I will bring you guys
into this conversation,

David Thomson: but once I identify the right people in
Microsoft.

Olivier Doucet: Sounds good.

Andrei Aitzhanov: OK, no.

David Thomson: This is dead. Azure Digital Twins is dead.
We were trying to use it in the last

Andrei Aitzhanov: Hmm.

David Thomson: company,
but Microsoft more or less killed it.

David Thomson: They dropped it.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Oh, really? OK.

Olivier Doucet: Yeah.

Andrei Aitzhanov: OK.

David Thomson: For over a year.
So that's the problem with Microsoft.

Olivier Doucet: Mm.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Oh.

David Thomson: Well, like everybody you know, NVIDIA,
but this Azure Digital twins.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Yeah.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Uh.

David Thomson: It was quite interesting because it would
like build this model from raw data.

David Thomson: As far as I understood you kind of would
build an ontology from data you you fed

Olivier Doucet: Mm.

David Thomson: it but.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Yeah, yeah, yeah,
that's was idea that they they are using

Andrei Aitzhanov: open modelling language for build the
ontology of your data and then you can

Andrei Aitzhanov: utilise this in the common platform.
And another idea that I really like is

Andrei Aitzhanov: that it it's a platform.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Uh.

Andrei Aitzhanov: That you can customer and you can use
independently of the markets.

Andrei Aitzhanov: It's it's a kind of universal platform
for any of the markets.

Olivier Doucet: Yeah.

Andrei Aitzhanov: That's also a good idea.

David Thomson: But yeah,
I I I didn't have a bad experience with

Andrei Aitzhanov: OK, but yeah.

David Thomson: Microsoft, but it's is.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Mhm.

David Thomson: I had the same conclusion, you know,
like let's use Microsoft because it's

David Thomson: gonna be around for a while,
whereas but actually not they they drop

David Thomson: things and and then they they they come
up with a new concept to replace it as

Andrei Aitzhanov: OK.

Olivier Doucet: Yeah.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Um, OK, OK.

Olivier Doucet: I mean,
when I said that it was more about the

David Thomson: well quite often.

Olivier Doucet: fundamentals building blocks,
I wasn't thinking of building too much on

David Thomson: Yeah.

Olivier Doucet: top of something specific,
but at least what we are all already

Olivier Doucet: using in our ecosystem.

Olivier Doucet: You know,
to the team's environment and this

David Thomson: Yep, Yep.

Olivier Doucet: product, but it's true, you know,
they can also kill them. Yeah,

David Thomson: But less likely because they're they're
used by millions of people.

Olivier Doucet: that's likely.

Olivier Doucet: It's OK.

Olivier Doucet: But yeah,
your point to David about this EP,

Andrei Aitzhanov: No.

Olivier Doucet: EP at the business level and how can we
bake our processes and how we work into a

Olivier Doucet: platform.
I think this is a really powerful thing

Olivier Doucet: and that's probably a.

Olivier Doucet: Something that business is really keen on
to make these processes more as far as I

Olivier Doucet: understand to tell me if if this is maybe
a wrong perception,

Olivier Doucet: but I think is that to be seen as a?

Olivier Doucet: As a as a priority or something really
important or?

David Thomson: Yeah,
I I I personally think it's it's

David Thomson: important.
So one of the things I've seen on several

David Thomson: slides is is like make the digital twin
of the business like there's a very high

David Thomson: level statement.

David Thomson: But um.

Olivier Doucet: Mm.

David Thomson: Yeah, Mert confirmed this as well.
So basically he said, yeah,

David Thomson: we we started kind of with this data
model. We we mapped out, you know,

David Thomson: who does what and how,
which tools do they use?

David Thomson: Where does the data go?

Olivier Doucet: Hey.

David Thomson: And I think you've heard of the Camino
project.

David Thomson: So it's like mapping the production
processes.

Olivier Doucet: Yeah.

David Thomson: There's a small team working on a Camino
copilot, they call it.

David Thomson: So basically they've connected it to LLM.

David Thomson: And a rag implementation, I think,
where they can take a PDF and extract a

David Thomson: process from it and then write this
process in XML.

David Thomson: And at the moment it's hallucinating like
hell.

David Thomson: But I said, you know,
I said what's important is first to make

David Thomson: we we do need to capture our business
processes and our our production

David Thomson: processes and even like the user
processes down to like the application

David Thomson: level.
It's generally not a bad thing to do.

David Thomson: But you need to make it scalable.
So like having somebody model this and

David Thomson: you know,
it takes them like 10 hours to to write

David Thomson: down a process today is, you know,
it's not gonna work, so.

David Thomson: I'd seen companies before just like
recording with screen grabs,

Olivier Doucet: Yeah, yeah.

David Thomson: like how they, you know, make a a drawing,
how they do a Revit model, design, review,

David Thomson: whatever,
and just record everything and then point

David Thomson: the AI at this video and get it to
translate the video into steps.

David Thomson: So, you know,
I said that's where we need to be with

Olivier Doucet: Mm.

David Thomson: capturing knowledge.
So I think a lot of people agree that

David Thomson: somehow capturing knowledge is a good
thing.

David Thomson: And I think you can do a lot with AI,
like basically, you know,

David Thomson: speak to the A I make.

David Thomson: Video of things and you can do quite
detailed things if you can get it to be

David Thomson: reliable. And I said, yeah, you for me,
you need to capture,

Olivier Doucet: Mm.

David Thomson: you know who does what, which role,
you know, is it a a project manager?

David Thomson: Is this a design coordinator or design
manager?

David Thomson: Is it a structural detail or whatever?

David Thomson: You need to capture the process,
of course,

David Thomson: the steps and which tools are used.
So this is Revit, this is Autodesk Civil,

David Thomson: this is Aviva instrumentation,
and you need to capture, you know,

Olivier Doucet: Mm.

David Thomson: what data is produced and where does it
go.

David Thomson: So this is a pin ID.
It goes into this file directory.

Olivier Doucet: Mm.

David Thomson: This is a, you know, a Revit model.
It goes into ACC under the project main,

David Thomson: you know, it's all this stuff I think.

David Thomson: It makes sense to do what I said to Peter.
I said I said I I think this makes sense

David Thomson: to do regardless of how you implement the
UPE. This is like a background work.

Olivier Doucet: And.

David Thomson: So that's one component I I look at the
moment I have the.

David Thomson: Product owner for Camino.
So I'm trying to redirect her work to

David Thomson: start to make a more frictionless capture
of processes. And yeah,

Olivier Doucet: Mm.

David Thomson: if there's any more details you think we
need rather than the tools,

Andrei Aitzhanov: Mhm.

David Thomson: the deliverables,
you know where the data goes.

David Thomson: Um.

David Thomson: Then let me know.
But we we haven't captured the processes

David Thomson: at that level of detail yet,
so this is still work in progress.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Mhm.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Maybe it's also another idea that I keep
in mind that we might use some kind of

Andrei Aitzhanov: recording or capturing a tool for record
the actions by individual actions by user.

Andrei Aitzhanov: For instance, I'm construction engineer.
I'm doing something.

David Thomson: Mm.

Andrei Aitzhanov: I'm exporting my model to IC.
I'm importing this to Revit or something

Andrei Aitzhanov: like that and I'm doing some some kind of
calculations in Excel and all of the

David Thomson: OK.

Andrei Aitzhanov: sections can can be recorded by this tool.
We can get some kind of XML or Jason

Andrei Aitzhanov: structure file and then reuse it for.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Get knowledge the typical way how we can
do something some yeah execute this

David Thomson: It's a good.

Andrei Aitzhanov: process.
It's a good idea because then we could

Olivier Doucet: Yeah.

Andrei Aitzhanov: could utilize it but without this
spending a lot of hours for get this

Andrei Aitzhanov: knowledge from verbally from the people.
Yeah we just we can just get it.

Olivier Doucet: Yeah,
I was thinking the same actually when you

Andrei Aitzhanov: It.

Olivier Doucet: were describing David, like for instance,
you would have like a small plug in and

David Thomson: Hmm.

Olivier Doucet: sitting in in the different design tools.
We have the all of this capability for

Olivier Doucet: being extended by add-ons and that would
be sort of a little spy, you know,

David Thomson: Yeah.

Olivier Doucet: checking what it.

Andrei Aitzhanov: No.

David Thomson: That's the first UPE product.

Olivier Doucet: Doing and.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Yeah, yeah.

Olivier Doucet: Extracting and and feeding our our our
database,

Olivier Doucet: our internal database that then our MCP
server can feed off.

Olivier Doucet: And of course this has to be a little bit
anonymized data,

Olivier Doucet: but we can just record you know the
discipline of the person.

Olivier Doucet: Maybe you know the country they're in and
a few indicators that give us context

Olivier Doucet: about what they're doing.
Maybe the project their own, you know,

Olivier Doucet: that could be interesting.
And if we have like this sort of top

Olivier Doucet: metadata,
then we can start to have data we can

Olivier Doucet: leverage. But to do this,
I think we need something even more to

Olivier Doucet: bootstrap.

Olivier Doucet: This is this concept of the project
context.

Olivier Doucet: You need to when you start your project
you need to have some sort of launcher or

David Thomson: Mm.

Olivier Doucet: the portal like Mert describes it maybe
where you have upfront identified who is

Olivier Doucet: working in what.

Olivier Doucet: The the type of the discipline and the
type of work of the person actually the

Olivier Doucet: user using the the system and I think
this is the initial effort is to create

Olivier Doucet: this basic database for identifying
activity.

Olivier Doucet: On our network so that we can map the
data somewhere.

David Thomson: It sounds like it.
I think we discussed it last time as well

David Thomson: that that was a good starting point to
put like a very minimal data model in

David Thomson: place. So it knows what a project is,
what a discipline is, what a role is.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Mhm, no.

David Thomson: Where is the user working? Uh, maybe.
Maybe that's a good thing to start to

Olivier Doucet: Mm.

David Thomson: define in in the loop.
What would the the basic?

Olivier Doucet: Yeah,
and and we have the CRM with all of the

Andrei Aitzhanov: No.

Olivier Doucet: projects already.
We have the the Azure and try ID with all

David Thomson: Yeah.

Olivier Doucet: of the users where we have already you
know the where people sit in the which

David Thomson: Yeah, yeah.

Olivier Doucet: department.
So I think we can derive already a lot of

Olivier Doucet: data.

Olivier Doucet: Without having people to to fill in
anything.

David Thomson: I obviously the the spy bot is is like
probably controversial,

David Thomson: but I will discuss this with yeah,
there's several people seem to be

David Thomson: interested in this knowledge capture
knowledge management idea.

Olivier Doucet: 2.

Andrei Aitzhanov: No.

David Thomson: I'm I'm working on a project is is like
you know the the robotic modes just

David Thomson: repeating the the process so.

Olivier Doucet: Yeah.

David Thomson: Yeah, I love it.
Maybe that's maybe that those two

David Thomson: elements are maybe like the first UPE
product which is the the spy bot and

David Thomson: build the network of information
automatically.

Olivier Doucet: Yeah.

David Thomson: The the the good thing is because we're
starting late, you know, like compared to.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Yeah.

Olivier Doucet: Hello.

David Thomson: Mut um,
you know we we have some of these or

David Thomson: these tools should be easier to to make
um.

David Thomson: OK. How much time do you guys have?
I'm OK actually today, but.

Olivier Doucet: I can. I can stretch it a bit more.
I don't have anything, uh, just behind.

Olivier Doucet: So if you want to to extend a bit,
it's fine, yeah.

David Thomson: I.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Yeah, I me too.

David Thomson: So I think it's still very helpful.
We're having really good discussions.

David Thomson: I don't know if you guys want to put more
structure in it or you think it's still

David Thomson: healthy to to just discuss generally the
one thing.

David Thomson: I did agree to do this.
I spoke to the person responsible for UX

David Thomson: in Rumble Tech, Marina,
and I told her about this.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Mhm.

Olivier Doucet: OK.

David Thomson: Originally I wanted to map out like the.

David Thomson: As is executing project compared to the
to be executing project,

David Thomson: you know after you have UPE this this is
what Mert sent me.

Olivier Doucet: Yeah.

David Thomson: I I asked him if he had an opinion about
you know how.

David Thomson: What's the to be picture?
And that's what he sent me in response.

Olivier Doucet: OK.

David Thomson: But actually, um, Robin,
my boss and Marina said we should do some

David Thomson: research in the GBAs where we take one or
two projects and we just like to talk to.

David Thomson: Well, not even us,
but basically the UX team do interviews

David Thomson: to the project users and say, you know,
talk me through doing this project and

Olivier Doucet: And.

David Thomson: you know where the pain points and you
know what do you do step by step so we

David Thomson: can we can use that team.

David Thomson: Um, to do this kind of initial research?

David Thomson: And maybe I'm thinking we could even use
that research session to say, well, like,

David Thomson: would you be OK if a, you know,
spybot was on your shoulder or something

David Thomson: like this, but.

Olivier Doucet: Hmm, yeah.

David Thomson: So we, yeah,
basically we can do this UXR as well as

David Thomson: part of this initiative.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Yeah.

Olivier Doucet: For me, I'll be honest with you,
this UX thing,

Olivier Doucet: if if it's today assessing the as is,
it makes sense,

Olivier Doucet: but the to be given that we are not even
sure you know what what capability we are,

Olivier Doucet: we want to prioritize and what things.

Olivier Doucet: I'm afraid that if you start putting UX,
it's going to go in all directions and it

David Thomson: It's it should be to be.

Olivier Doucet: might be a waste of resources so.

David Thomson: Yeah.

David Thomson: It should be the to be story and it it
should be very limited.

Olivier Doucet: Yeah.

David Thomson: It shouldn't be too big. No,
like not a giant project,

David Thomson: not not hundreds of users,
just just very small.

Olivier Doucet: Mm-hmm.

David Thomson: OK.

David Thomson: Um.

David Thomson: Maybe I I just want to share with you
since you're on.

David Thomson: Um, this workshop? Uh,
let me bring up the agenda.

Olivier Doucet: The one you you mentioned in in on 24th
of Feb or something, yeah.

David Thomson: Yeah.
So the I'll just share that with you so

David Thomson: you can see, so you have some visibility.

David Thomson: So basically Robin encouraged me to do
this and the the heads of DDP are very

David Thomson: keen to meet each other because they
don't get to travel much apparently or

David Thomson: not during this restricted travel.

Olivier Doucet: Yeah.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Mhm.

David Thomson: So.

David Thomson: Yeah,
basically those guys are the main

David Thomson: stakeholders, the heads of DDP, Marquetta,
David,

Olivier Doucet: Mhm.

David Thomson: I think everybody can come apart from
David Cassano because he's in the US.

Olivier Doucet: Hmm.

David Thomson: So these guys will be on site.

David Thomson: Um, the head.
The directors have been invited,

David Thomson: but they're like optional.

David Thomson: And then basically the key goals are to
align on these key requirements again.

Olivier Doucet: Mhm.

David Thomson: I mean,
I don't have them documented in one place,

David Thomson: unfortunately. I have bits and pieces,
but it's not really clear. The yeah,

David Thomson: the main outcome, if you like,
is to agree on this governance model.

David Thomson: So Peter Hayman already agreed to be the
president of the steering committee.

Olivier Doucet: Mhm.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Mhm.

David Thomson: And then I think what the heads of G,
what the heads of DDP have been telling

David Thomson: me is that we have agreed this layer
model.

David Thomson: Have you seen this diagram where the UPE
should be some of it should be like,

Olivier Doucet: Yeah.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Mhm.

David Thomson: you know, globally delivered?

David Thomson: And some of it should be GBA specific.

Olivier Doucet: OK.

David Thomson: And they want to agree on like how do we
govern, you know,

David Thomson: what's global and what's GPA specific.
So we have to put basically the the

David Thomson: structure around that.

Olivier Doucet: I've seen this and let me say I thought
it was a bit. I mean,

Olivier Doucet: I like the idea obviously.
I think it's great idea to be able to

Olivier Doucet: modularize and to to adapt, you know,
depending on the needs.

Olivier Doucet: But I think it was strange that we had,
we are discussing this before even we are.

Olivier Doucet: We have identified the the,
the capabilities that we want because

Olivier Doucet: once you have said, OK,
this is what we want to implement,

Olivier Doucet: then you can say OK, this part,
maybe it has to be there.

David Thomson: Yeah.

Olivier Doucet: This doesn't make sense.
So maybe it's outside of the bundle,

Olivier Doucet: you know, for certain GBA or for.

Olivier Doucet: So to me,
it sounds a bit strange that I think we

Olivier Doucet: are one step too far ahead.
We haven't covered enough to.

David Thomson: Hey babe.

Olivier Doucet: And sorry if I'm brutally honest, David.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.

David Thomson: Brutally honest is is very good at this
stage. It's it saves time.

Olivier Doucet: So, uh, I would,
I would think maybe it's good that, uh,

Olivier Doucet: you know, uh, this uh.

Olivier Doucet: Focus on on the.

Olivier Doucet: Identifying you know those those
different capabilities before we can say

Olivier Doucet: in which in which GBA they should fall.

David Thomson: Yeah,
I suspect this decision about layers was

David Thomson: done to keep like everybody happy.

Olivier Doucet: Yeah, OK, yeah.
But then then it's it's good, it's good.

Olivier Doucet: But it I don't know how how effective it
is to to.

Olivier Doucet: To move things forward in a way,
I think this should be said that yeah,

Olivier Doucet: it's a granted that it's not gonna be A1
size for fit all and that it's going to

David Thomson: Yeah.

Olivier Doucet: be constraining,
but then how useful that is.

Olivier Doucet: At this point I was sort of questioning
it a little bit.

Olivier Doucet: I think it's a bit of a distraction I
would say,

Olivier Doucet: but I think it's an important point,
I agree,

Olivier Doucet: but I wouldn't have too much focus on
that.

David Thomson: Yeah, that's that's good. Uh, good input.

Olivier Doucet: OK.

David Thomson: But basically my my goal was like
establish this operating model,

David Thomson: get the get you know one more shot of of
requirements,

David Thomson: give them a chance to do their homework
and say this is what we need.

Olivier Doucet: OK.

David Thomson: I mean at the moment I have very high
level things like Eric is saying we need

David Thomson: to be more data-driven and put in place
the BIM standards in a.

David Thomson: Consistent way,
but for me that's like a GBA issue.

Olivier Doucet: Mhm.

David Thomson: They need to do that within their GPA,
but some other things like we can't do

Olivier Doucet: Hmm.

David Thomson: global work share because people are
using different tools. OK,

David Thomson: that's then something which is a kind of
global topic.

David Thomson: But they're not really about capability,
they're just about these these business

Olivier Doucet: Oh.

David Thomson: initiatives which are needed as a
precursor to UPE. Actually,

David Thomson: like if we don't have standardized
workflows and standardized ways of

Olivier Doucet: Mm.

David Thomson: governing projects.

David Thomson: Then you can, you know you can.

David Thomson: I think that's like pre work.
It's a prerequisite, so anyway.

Olivier Doucet: There has been some work done in in in in
the GBA. I think.

Olivier Doucet: I think if you press Eric, he will,
he will give you something. Yeah, yeah,

David Thomson: Yeah.

David Thomson: He's giving me a lot.
He's giving me a lot.

Olivier Doucet: but.

Olivier Doucet: I I thought I could agree with him a
little bit on that because OK,

Olivier Doucet: it's not just BIM.
I mean every project needs to have like a

Olivier Doucet: properly documented and you know,
naming convention and all of this or at

Olivier Doucet: least one way of defining some
specification.

Olivier Doucet: I don't think any any discipline is.

David Thomson: Yeah.

Olivier Doucet: Would benefit from having a chaotic
nonstandardized way of delivering.

Olivier Doucet: So for me this would apply across GBA,
wouldn't it?

David Thomson: Yeah,
I think that's it sits with the GB AS.

David Thomson: Yeah, Peter Hayman said that himself.
He said, you know, David, you, you, you,

David Thomson: you kind of need to wait for the GB AS to
do some of their harmonisation work and

David Thomson: consolidation work before you can.

Olivier Doucet: Mm.

David Thomson: Probably roll out, you know,
the concept of UPE. Um.

Olivier Doucet: But if you have,
let's say if you as a platform,

Olivier Doucet: if you provide a mechanism for a
different GBA to define their standard,

Olivier Doucet: that's that's I think in that sense I
think as a platform you could.

Olivier Doucet: Have a underlying underlying mechanism
that technically will be used by everyone,

David Thomson: Enable it, yeah.

David Thomson: Hmm.

Olivier Doucet: but then you let Gbas or even project you
know,

Olivier Doucet: configure it and tweak it if they need to.

Olivier Doucet: But the mechanism is is baked in and you
can harness it.

Olivier Doucet: You just need to configure it and maybe
you get a template when you initialize

Olivier Doucet: your project.
So it comes predefined according to you

Olivier Doucet: know what's been agreed to be the the
standard for a project this size or this

Olivier Doucet: and that.
So you have predefined templates.

Olivier Doucet: And we can seed the the, the, the,
the setup for the project in certain ways,

Olivier Doucet: but you can always go in and tweak and
change things if you want to use

Olivier Doucet: different ways and maybe sometimes we
have to because the client is enforcing.

Olivier Doucet: No ways. So it should be possible,
but that's for me, yeah.

David Thomson: Yeah,
I think this is what Eric has in mind is,

David Thomson: is that we enforce it or provide the
tools to enforce it.

Olivier Doucet: Mm.

David Thomson: Anyway, this is this is like the agenda.
I I said you can, um, add to this agenda,

David Thomson: provide feedback.
They've not done much yet. Um.

David Thomson: And then the second one is around digital
design and production.

David Thomson: Which is more.

David Thomson: About AI and innovation,
because it seems like those innovation

David Thomson: topics are kind of external at the moment
and done in the GBA and they're not

David Thomson: getting the support from Bramble Tech.

Olivier Doucet: Mhm.

David Thomson: I can send this to you and we'll record
it as well. Yeah, that's fine.

Olivier Doucet: OK.

Olivier Doucet: I took a screenshot now,
so I have I have a copy, but yeah,

Olivier Doucet: thanks for sharing.
I really appreciate it.

David Thomson: Yeah.

David Thomson: Um.

Andrei Aitzhanov: No.

David Thomson: I don't think there's anything else.
I think I'll. Oh,

David Thomson: one more thing I've got going on is um.

David Thomson: We we don't have very good processes for,
well, we've got,

David Thomson: I think the normal ADO processes for
managing A backlog and doing the,

David Thomson: you know, the Sprint execution.
But something I feel I mentioned this

Olivier Doucet: Mm.

David Thomson: before is we don't have a very good.

David Thomson: Tool for doing this kind of platform
building which is is going to have

David Thomson: multiple products effectively under the
platform.

David Thomson: So I'm testing this tool aha which is
what I used in Aviva which is like a a

David Thomson: road mapping.

David Thomson: And yeah, it's mostly a road mapping tool,
but it allows you to, you know,

David Thomson: like to put in very complex products or a
portfolio of products and track, you know,

David Thomson: how these different products or features
or initiatives need to work together.

David Thomson: So I haven't done it yet,
but my idea is to put in an example of

Andrei Aitzhanov: Mhm.

David Thomson: UPE and then we'll kind of use this and
and demonstrate it to the business and

Olivier Doucet: OK.

David Thomson: say.

David Thomson: We we need this kind of tool to help us
manage this very complex type of product.

David Thomson: I I I think this I've discovered there's
a portfolio governance group as well in

David Thomson: rumble tech and they need this tool.
There's the product lifecycle to people

Olivier Doucet: And.

David Thomson: as well.
They need this tool and then the product

David Thomson: owners as well so that.

David Thomson: That's part of the work I'm doing to try
and like improve the process in in

David Thomson: product management as well,
but I'll try to use UP as an example.

David Thomson: So I'll I'll do like a first draft,
but I'll probably need you guys input to

David Thomson: say maybe you know where we think this
split of capabilities is or products.

David Thomson: Further down the line,
but I'll refer basically to what we've

David Thomson: got in the the loop already.

Olivier Doucet: Yeah,
but you you mentioned a specific product

Andrei Aitzhanov: Mhm.

Olivier Doucet: that you you want to use for this, David.

David Thomson: Yeah, I'll show you. It's it's called aha.
Um.

Andrei Aitzhanov: It's actually the name of the EDW on
shell.

Andrei Aitzhanov: They are using also the same abbreviation.

David Thomson: Who is using it?

Andrei Aitzhanov: It's Shell.
Shell developed cells EDW internally

David Thomson: Oh yeah.

Andrei Aitzhanov: based on, I don't know,
it's Microsoft database,

Andrei Aitzhanov: SQL database and it's name of absolutely
the same. Aha as you mentioned, yeah.

Olivier Doucet: No.

David Thomson: Hmm.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Same abbreviation.

David Thomson: I just typed in my Aviva e-mail address
by mistake.

Olivier Doucet: I'll have to get the power here.

Andrei Aitzhanov: That's it.

David Thomson: The Hobbit.

David Thomson: Am I sharing my screen?

Olivier Doucet: Uh, not yet, no.

Andrei Aitzhanov: No.

David Thomson: Hang on.

David Thomson: I don't worry.
What I'll do is I'll make a small video

David Thomson: and I'll send it to anybody who's like
interested in this.

Olivier Doucet: Mhm.

David Thomson: I'm struggling with the password just now.
I think I need a coffee.

Olivier Doucet: Yeah, sounds good. But uh, don't worry.
Uh, you can. Yeah, you can send it later.

Olivier Doucet: I was just curious. It's not urgent.

David Thomson: Yeah,
it's a very nice tool like basically

David Thomson: allows you to connect all your strategic
initiatives to like products and features

David Thomson: in your ADO environment and then you can
kind of measure like are we making

Andrei Aitzhanov: Mhm.

David Thomson: progress towards the strategic goal.

David Thomson: And yeah, basically in Aviva,
they were using it because, you know,

Andrei Aitzhanov: Mhm.

David Thomson: they're trying to develop this integrated
engineering and design,

David Thomson: but actually underneath that concept is
individual products, right,

David Thomson: that have a product owner.

David Thomson: So in order to make the whole thing move
along together,

Olivier Doucet: Mhm.

David Thomson: they really struggled to do that in like,
you know, Jira, DevOps,

David Thomson: whatever kind of agile development
management platform and it has has been

Olivier Doucet: Mm.

David Thomson: like developed specifically to.

David Thomson: Solve this problem is.

David Thomson: Like this if you want to Google it like
it.

Olivier Doucet: Right. Yeah, I will look it up.

David Thomson: Yep.

Olivier Doucet: I'm normally quite skeptical towards the
the new shiny tool,

Olivier Doucet: but it sounds like they have.
They have cracked something important

Olivier Doucet: here.

David Thomson: Yeah, it's not. It's not so new anymore.
I mean,

David Thomson: Aviva was using it I guess seven years
ago. It's quite the stuff. To be honest,

Olivier Doucet: Oh, well.

David Thomson: it they got this problem where they tried
to put too much features in it and then

David Thomson: now it looks quite clunky. You know,
it was quite streamlined and simple

David Thomson: before and now it's like too many buttons,
too many.

David Thomson: Too much going on,
but it's pretty powerful and I think

Olivier Doucet: Mm.

David Thomson: Ramboll needs.
Normally I would say just like copy the

David Thomson: concepts and do it like manually in
notion or something like this.

Olivier Doucet: OK.

David Thomson: You don't need to buy the software to do
this.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Mhm.

David Thomson: But I think Rambo could benefit from
having this for a few years, but.

Olivier Doucet: Yeah.

David Thomson: You can have a look at it and I'll I'll
set up this demo environment.

Olivier Doucet: So.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Yeah,
and interesting because looks like a

Olivier Doucet: Sounds good.

Andrei Aitzhanov: mirror.

David Thomson: It has basically it has Miro inside it,
but if you do like your product features,

David Thomson: you know as a whiteboard,
it converts them into like database

Andrei Aitzhanov: Mhm.

David Thomson: objects as features and then you can link
you know the feature to a business

Olivier Doucet: Mm.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Mm.

David Thomson: objective or an initiative.

David Thomson: And yeah,
it's like data centric way of working

David Thomson: basically.

Olivier Doucet: Sounds like also good for PDP.
We can connect the the the PDP goals of

Andrei Aitzhanov: Have you?

David Thomson: Oh yeah.

Olivier Doucet: from from the top down.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Yeah.

David Thomson: I hate this system.
That's what I I I know.

David Thomson: I started using this PDP system and it's
it's like, uh, very clunky.

Olivier Doucet: Yeah.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Yeah, yeah. OK, nice.

Olivier Doucet: All right.

David Thomson: All right. Yeah.
Sorry we didn't get too much further on

David Thomson: our agenda,
but maybe we can get back to like more

David Thomson: frequent meetings and we can go through
our our plan.

Olivier Doucet: I think it was meaningful conversation
and yeah.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Yeah, yeah, yeah.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Yeah,
anyway I recorded transcription of the

Andrei Aitzhanov: session and my idea that I will use AI
for translate this and organise this in

Andrei Aitzhanov: more shorter version and then I will
include this into into the loop as a.

David Thomson: Yeah.

David Thomson: That's great.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Yeah,
it's some minutes of meetings or

Andrei Aitzhanov: something like that. Yeah, that's.
I think that that's important. Yeah. OK.

David Thomson: Perfect. Thank you very much.

David Thomson: All right, guys, have a good one.
I'm going to get out this tiny box here.

Olivier Doucet: Yes, thank you.

Olivier Doucet: Yeah, enjoy.

David Thomson: It's hot.

David Thomson: See you guys. Have a good one. Bye, bye.

