Olivier Doucet: I will present you with just a specific
view that you have interest in a certain

Olivier Doucet: context.
So that's something we could implement

Olivier Doucet: either by running automation through a
bunch of this data models and whatnot,

Olivier Doucet: all of the format that we can support.

Olivier Doucet: And then generate,
let's say a small data structure that is

Olivier Doucet: extracting this information.
And then maybe we need to refresh this

Olivier Doucet: whenever the data changes and we can
maybe even trigger it automatically with,

Olivier Doucet: you know,
detection or we can rerun it periodically

Olivier Doucet: when we need.

Olivier Doucet: And then we have this information,
but it's not coupled or we can also have.

Olivier Doucet: Like some service,
some layer of service that can

Olivier Doucet: automatically query these things on the
fly. Of course it won't be as efficient,

Olivier Doucet: but this sort of manifest or a view
extraction of data,

Olivier Doucet: potentially we could have not just one,
but different facets.

Olivier Doucet: That would cater for different use cases
and different purpose or it can be just

David Thomson: Hmm.

Olivier Doucet: one if we can aggregate everything,
but it all depends for me on what are we

David Thomson: Yeah.

Olivier Doucet: doing with this data.

Olivier Doucet: And what are the use cases?
I think that would be useful and that

Olivier Doucet: maybe that can help.

David Thomson: Yeah, of course.
I I don't have that layer level of detail

David Thomson: yet, so it's it's very hard,
which is why we shouldn't, you know,

Olivier Doucet: Mhm.

David Thomson: start building anything I expect.

David Thomson: That you know we we.

David Thomson: I'll come back to requirements because
they're very almost like contradictory

David Thomson: requirements somehow at the high level.
So I think it's going to take longer to

David Thomson: really identify, you know,
the high priority use cases like why we

David Thomson: need this data that I think as you guys
already point.

Olivier Doucet: Hmm.

David Thomson: Pointed out there's some other use cases
where it's more obvious,

David Thomson: like project initialization,
project provisioning.

David Thomson: I think that's much more clear. Basically,
you know,

David Thomson: start the project in the right way with
the right tools,

David Thomson: with the data in the right place.
You know, that's that's, you know,

Olivier Doucet: Hmm.

David Thomson: that's like much more clear.

David Thomson: But to me, I'm not, you know,
completely clear.

David Thomson: Do we really need to extract all the data?
But it's, you know,

David Thomson: I can only say it's case by case,
but I don't understand those cases at the

Olivier Doucet: Yeah,
there was something else that I I had the

David Thomson: moment.

Olivier Doucet: opportunity to discuss with some of my
colleagues here since we spoke on Tuesday

Olivier Doucet: and I I told them that I was involved in
in this conversation we're having and you

Olivier Doucet: know, we're trying to figure out.

Olivier Doucet: How best we can contribute and what's the
most needed stuff.

Olivier Doucet: And one of them was almost a bit
frustrated saying I've heard this,

Olivier Doucet: I don't know how many times we're trying
to improve,

Olivier Doucet: but for him it was like we haven't even
fixed level zero of aligning.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Mm.

Olivier Doucet: On the standardization,
even at the process level.

Olivier Doucet: So it's really difficult to start talking
about a building anything if you don't

Olivier Doucet: have alignment on, you know,
how are you going to structure your

Olivier Doucet: folders, what's the workflow?
A lot of it is really high level,

David Thomson: Yeah.

Olivier Doucet: but when it comes down to the project.

Olivier Doucet: People are often left, you know,
deciding for themselves how they want to

Olivier Doucet: do it within the discipline and then it
doesn't really fit together at the

Olivier Doucet: project level. So he was,
he was a little bit frustrated because

Olivier Doucet: for him it he thinks that UP should.

Olivier Doucet: First and foremost,
we should have like a really good

Olivier Doucet: alignment on how do we standardize and it
can be just documents.

Olivier Doucet: It doesn't have to be any engine,
it can be just some templates or

David Thomson: Yeah.

Olivier Doucet: recommendation on.

Olivier Doucet: What does it mean to implement this check
in the discipline?

Olivier Doucet: How do we deliver and all of this?
So that was one of the feedback I got

David Thomson: Hmm.

Olivier Doucet: from from this conversation.
I thought I would bring it back to this

Olivier Doucet: meeting because we tend to go a little
bit high level, you know?

Olivier Doucet: All of this technicalities, but.

David Thomson: Yeah, it's it's absolutely right. Um.

David Thomson: You'll see I I started to break down high
level the work streams and my colleagues

David Thomson: actually started this and the that's very
fair to say we we don't even have the

David Thomson: basics which is really about process and
and and project execution,

Olivier Doucet: Yeah.

David Thomson: nothing to do with software.

David Thomson: That's a huge job that needs to be done
and but what I started to realize is.

Olivier Doucet: Yeah.

David Thomson: Instead of thinking about building the
platform.

David Thomson: I think there are some like what we,
I think Rambo calls it like tech enablers.

David Thomson: So I think there are some utilities,
some bits of software, you know,

Olivier Doucet: Yeah.

David Thomson: which will help to like the data,
like the knowledge capture idea we talked

Andrei Aitzhanov: Mhm.

David Thomson: about on Tuesday.
There's probably something.

Andrei Aitzhanov: No, no, no.

David Thomson: Things we can develop which will
significantly maybe speed up the that

Olivier Doucet: Hmm.

David Thomson: process of of of documenting all of the
basics and and aligning everybody on them.

David Thomson: So, but I'll I'll come back to that.
But I totally agree. Yeah, Andrei.

Olivier Doucet: Mm.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Yeah,
just one point as well from my end that

Andrei Aitzhanov: actually as per my experience in energy,
I I see that all these huge documents

Andrei Aitzhanov: with a lot of rules engineers are not
following actually.

Andrei Aitzhanov: The best way to to implement this from my
humble opinion that we need to implement

Andrei Aitzhanov: all these templates,
workflows and etcetera in the cap tools

Andrei Aitzhanov: or or the instruments that engineers are
using on a daily basis.

David Thomson: Mm.

Andrei Aitzhanov: And then they don't have a choice to use
another way.

Andrei Aitzhanov: They should follow these rules because
it's what how tool is established and

Andrei Aitzhanov: deployed in this particular VDI or
computer.

Andrei Aitzhanov: That's my my feeling that if you will
open the Revit, you need to select.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Template and then you don't have a choice
to use another families or another forms

Andrei Aitzhanov: or something like that.
It's it's a very basic things,

Andrei Aitzhanov: but I think that this is what we need to
keep in mind that we need to implement

Andrei Aitzhanov: this into the individual.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Level to the CAD tools and yes,
I see that for now we are talking about

Andrei Aitzhanov: the AI and machine learning and another,
but we don't have very fundamental things

Andrei Aitzhanov: like a data model responsible metrics.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Work flows,
who will do when and what and this kind

Andrei Aitzhanov: of things. Yeah,
this is very initial things.

David Thomson: Yeah, there's there's many things to do,
unfortunately. I mean,

David Thomson: there's lots of pressure from up top,
but then again,

David Thomson: I think they're kind of realistic on time
frame. Like from my perspective,

David Thomson: they only expect me to get the governance
in place this year.

David Thomson: But my product manager instinct is like I
want to build because you put, you know,

Andrei Aitzhanov: Mm.

David Thomson: sooner you put something in the hand of
the user, you get some feedback,

Olivier Doucet: Mm.

David Thomson: you iterate, you improve.
So I still intend to, you know,

David Thomson: build something this year hopefully and
and maybe it's project initialisation,

David Thomson: maybe it's.

David Thomson: But I'm pretty sure we need to build like
a a. It's maybe not a tool,

David Thomson: but something around the data model.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Yeah, data module, dashboards,
maybe templates.

Olivier Doucet: Dash dashboard also.

David Thomson: Uh.

David Thomson: Mm.

Andrei Aitzhanov: I mean that at least the list of folders
and subfolders in the ACC and the rules

David Thomson: Yeah.

Andrei Aitzhanov: who will have access to which folders.
It's the very fundamental and basic

Andrei Aitzhanov: things what we can do.

Andrei Aitzhanov: And the way how the new projects can be
initiated, I mean that Revit templates,

Andrei Aitzhanov: if we are talking about buildings for
instance,

Andrei Aitzhanov: we we also need to understand the pilot
GBA. Yeah, what we will start,

Andrei Aitzhanov: where we will start.
I think that's the buildings is a good

Andrei Aitzhanov: candidate here.

Andrei Aitzhanov: And maybe we could standardize the
workforce for buildings 1st and at least

Andrei Aitzhanov: the way how they initiate new projects,
how they are submitting the data to the

Andrei Aitzhanov: clients,
how they are validating the the BIM

Andrei Aitzhanov: models before they will submit this to
the clients and some kind of thing these

Andrei Aitzhanov: things.

Andrei Aitzhanov: What I keep in mind?

David Thomson: Yeah, Peter made it clear that, you know,
buildings is the is a sort of logical

David Thomson: place to start.
I I just got a a slide deck from the UK.

David Thomson: Where is it?

Andrei Aitzhanov: Mm-hmm.

David Thomson: Which is pretty interesting like the
results of implementing ACC across the

David Thomson: the UK buildings organization and it's
it's pretty it's like a big endorsement

David Thomson: of ACC but nobody wanted to say that it
was ACC but simply because.

Olivier Doucet: Hey.

Andrei Aitzhanov: OK.

David Thomson: Like they had a web viewer for the 3D
model.

Olivier Doucet: OK.

David Thomson: This made a huge difference because
people were collaborating in a in a

David Thomson: consistent way, you know?
But I think I can.

David Thomson: I'll make a PDF of this.
I think I can share it with you.

David Thomson: I'll just double check there's nothing in
it, but I haven't read it yet.

David Thomson: But yeah,
it it looks like in a way the UK

Olivier Doucet: Hmm.

David Thomson: buildings organization kind of have done
this POC anyway.

David Thomson: So that's that's what to build from I
think.

Olivier Doucet: No, that's good to hear, yeah.

David Thomson: Just to go back,
so I I mentioned these work streams

David Thomson: because at some point I will officially
involve you in these work streams. Yeah,

David Thomson: that was it from Autodesk.

David Thomson: I put it in the in here.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Hey, the whoops. Yeah.

David Thomson: In the where is it now?
I reorganized a bit our the loop.

David Thomson: So it's not DevOps,
it's it's still loop at this point.

Olivier Doucet: Mm.

David Thomson: I discussed it with Ronnie and my team
this morning and and everybody was OK

David Thomson: with it, but.

David Thomson: The team before I started had come up
with these three pillars,

David Thomson: which was connected production eco
ecosystems.

David Thomson: This is basically our vendor platforms.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Hmm.

David Thomson: Data like production data basically and
processes.

David Thomson: So these these were pretty close to work
streams and people had actually started

David Thomson: to execute on those work streams last
year.

David Thomson: And they did some of the work,
like this foundational work.

David Thomson: So they mapped, you know,
what's all the software Rumble's using?

David Thomson: Which are the ones we want to focus on?
Which are the ones we want to get rid of?

David Thomson: They mapped some of the processes in
Camino.

David Thomson: I'll I'll come back to it,
but basically I I added this work stream

Andrei Aitzhanov: Mhm.

David Thomson: around governance.
So this is what this will be the focus of

David Thomson: the workshop in.

Olivier Doucet: Two weeks in Copenega.

David Thomson: On 24th,
I didn't invite you guys because I think

David Thomson: it's not going to be too much technical
or building. It's about requirements.

David Thomson: So and to put in place this governance.
So Peter Hayman will will be the

Olivier Doucet: It's fine.

David Thomson: president of the steering Cole.

David Thomson: Yeah,
you could imagine every IDT director is

David Thomson: involved somehow and.

David Thomson: There's these guys, Miko,
who's setting up the stereoco for me.

David Thomson: So that's that's like work package one.
We get that in place, you know,

David Thomson: first quarter is my my plan including,
you know, some product management,

Andrei Aitzhanov: Mhm.

David Thomson: this single source of truth here.

David Thomson: The other thing which is part of this,
my colleague set up like a new teams site

David Thomson: which is structured in the same way more
or less with the work streams,

David Thomson: but we didn't share it yet,
but that that will be the basis of this.

David Thomson: Yeah. So this one around the platforms,
which is are owned by my team as well.

David Thomson: They're basically rolling out ACC.
They're somebody's doing this job to map

David Thomson: the connectivity between the platforms,
like where do we need interoperability?

David Thomson: Team and like how can we do file exchange
or data exchange?

David Thomson: So that's already started.
Somebody in my team is or somebody

David Thomson: working for somebody in my team is doing
that already.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Mhm.

David Thomson: Um.

David Thomson: Yeah,
this one is about working with Autodesk

David Thomson: to try and, you know,
test their A I capability,

David Thomson: understand how we're going to use it and
work together with them to make sure it's,

David Thomson: you know, the way that we want it to be.

Olivier Doucet: Do they? Sorry David,
does Autodesk mention, sorry,

David Thomson: Um.

Olivier Doucet: any work on the MCP servers that they
would implement on their way and that

Olivier Doucet: they could make available for like
Autodesk customer?

Olivier Doucet: I know that for instance,
Microsoft has open source one MCP server

Olivier Doucet: that is crawling all of that
documentation.

Olivier Doucet: If you're looking anything Microsoft,
they have like dedicated agents that can.

Olivier Doucet: Or MCP that can extract data that could
be something to challenge them with and

Olivier Doucet: say you talk a lot about AI,
but AI is is a lot about MCP.

Olivier Doucet: I think now in the agentic age,
what's what are you doing there?

David Thomson: Yeah.

Olivier Doucet: Is there any because that that would be a
really good to have.

David Thomson: Yeah.

David Thomson: Yeah, I sorry,
I thought I shared this with you guys.

David Thomson: I attended this A I workshop where they
presented their different A I initiatives

David Thomson: and and one of them MCP server.
So they have this you can talk I think or

Olivier Doucet: Mhm.

David Thomson: you can have an agent you know talk
through.

David Thomson: API to Revit and ACC.
I think that's it at the moment.

Olivier Doucet: Right.

Olivier Doucet: Hmm.

David Thomson: I'll send it to you. It's not.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Mm-hmm. But uh.

Olivier Doucet: Right. Thanks. Sorry for interrupting.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Yeah, Oliver,
do you know the the cloud cloud code?

Andrei Aitzhanov: I think you can develop yourself MCP
server and connect cloud to the Revit.

Olivier Doucet: Hmm.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Or another files through API through
through Revit API that's possible.

Olivier Doucet: Hmm.

David Thomson: Yeah.

Andrei Aitzhanov: I I I know because I I saw some demos
that when people developed chatbots for

Andrei Aitzhanov: Revit models.

Andrei Aitzhanov: So I'm I'm pretty sure that it's possible,
yeah.

Olivier Doucet: Hmm.

Olivier Doucet: Yeah, yeah, it definitely it is.
I'm just thinking, you know,

Olivier Doucet: if they are also pushing AI always,
maybe you know that's something that they

Andrei Aitzhanov: Mm.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Hmm.

Olivier Doucet: could provide, you know,
as part of the offer in the same way they

Olivier Doucet: are exposing all of this well documented
APIs.

Olivier Doucet: I think that should come with some
dedicated MCP server that can be.

David Thomson: They yeah,
I they offer this dedicated MCP server

Andrei Aitzhanov: Mhm.

David Thomson: and you'll you'll see in my report.
I think they.

David Thomson: It's like a public one and I think we
could just need to.

Olivier Doucet: Mhm.

David Thomson: You can go to some part of their website
and request access to that.

Olivier Doucet: MM.

David Thomson: I I I've got it in the documentation
somewhere, so I'll forward that to you.

Olivier Doucet: Yeah.

David Thomson: But yeah,
this the whole topic of AI in digital

David Thomson: design production, as I mentioned before,
is like a big topic and we're gonna pick

David Thomson: it up.

David Thomson: You know,
more generally with the digital design

David Thomson: and roduction charter.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Hmm.

David Thomson: And it's, yeah, the three,
I think there's three components like AI

David Thomson: from the vendor when you know Autodesk
make a chatbot for example,

David Thomson: they've got this AI assistant for Revit,
which is just like they tuned and you

David Thomson: know.

David Thomson: Probably put the rack implementation on a
old LLM model and you can chat to Revit.

David Thomson: It's it's like a a little bit tuned model
and then they have you know the more

David Thomson: infrastructure approach where they make
an NTP server and the services to connect

David Thomson: it to their their different you know
platform parts.

David Thomson: And then there's like, yeah,
citizen developer stuff where like you

David Thomson: said, the people will take public cloud,
you know,

David Thomson: and use the API to to to speak to a a
civil. I think water are doing it.

David Thomson: They're they're they showed me a demo of
cloud.

David Thomson: Interrogating a Sybil's 3D model.

Olivier Doucet: Hmm.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Mhm.

David Thomson: So yeah, we that one's coming up the.

David Thomson: Data one.
So the what I'm trying to do just now is

David Thomson: to put a owner in place of each one of
these work streams.

Olivier Doucet: Hmm.

David Thomson: This one more or less is like.

David Thomson: Paul and Michael from my team,
they're kind of in that position already

Andrei Aitzhanov: Mhm.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Yeah.

Andrei Aitzhanov: OK.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Paul actually was responsible for data
strategy preparation.

David Thomson: well and.

Andrei Aitzhanov: I think that two years ago at least one
side I I I was joined Rambo.

David Thomson: Yeah.

Andrei Aitzhanov: He was leading this this topic in Rambo.

David Thomson: Uh.

Andrei Aitzhanov: No.

David Thomson: Yeah,
we we just discussed this today that

David Thomson: there needs to be like a data strategy
person in Rumble, but there's no,

David Thomson: you know,
responsible for overall data strategy and

David Thomson: I think they need to put that in place
urgently.

David Thomson: Not just in the design tools,
but you know, across the business.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Mm.

David Thomson: Um.

Andrei Aitzhanov: No.

David Thomson: Yes.
So this one that even I said let's try

David Thomson: and do that within engineering and and
design, but we we don't,

David Thomson: I don't know who the owner is and we
agreed with Ronnie to work with you guys

David Thomson: on this one at least as like contributors.

David Thomson: So maybe I have to own this like work
stream in the in the in the short term.

David Thomson: Yeah, the these are.

Olivier Doucet: Geo data.
I think Tia has also some some expertise

Olivier Doucet: in that. Doesn't she?

David Thomson: Yeah.

Olivier Doucet: From.

Olivier Doucet: But yeah,
happy to contribute on on on this, David.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Yeah, I I would also maybe,
I'm not sure how many people we can

David Thomson: OK.

Andrei Aitzhanov: invite, but yeah, for Aviva,
we also have 3D model parts.

Andrei Aitzhanov: It's a Daniel.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Who's leading this this? Yeah.

David Thomson: Hmm.

David Thomson: I saw he's has to reduce his hours on
Aviva,

David Thomson: so maybe he has some spare hours for us.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, definitely.
And he really,

Andrei Aitzhanov: he really involved in the AI part and for
this MCP with the the back home. Yeah,

Andrei Aitzhanov: I think that he he understand all of this,
yeah.

David Thomson: Mhm.

David Thomson: OK. This one is not very well formed.
So my colleagues, OK, you know,

Andrei Aitzhanov: Yes.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Um.

David Thomson: Paul had started something,
I think Diana and Michael had.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Mm-hmm.

David Thomson: Like our class library driven, you know,
data engineering, that kind of stuff.

David Thomson: For me it's I know it only from well from
2 perspective like the Aviva approach and

Andrei Aitzhanov: Mhm.

David Thomson: then the PLM approach, but let's.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Mhm.

David Thomson: This is like a big topic.
We'll we'll come back to this one,

David Thomson: but there's definitely a work stream.

Andrei Aitzhanov: David,
one small question before we go to this

David Thomson: Yeah.

Andrei Aitzhanov: next section.
Do you do you do you already see the the

Andrei Aitzhanov: tool or platform for aggregate all these
requirements,

Andrei Aitzhanov: I mean data requirements from all GB as?

Andrei Aitzhanov: Because you are I I can see that data
models will be on the on some of the

Andrei Aitzhanov: level of decomposition we will get the
same entities like company your number.

Andrei Aitzhanov: I don't know it's relevant for all GPSI
think.

Andrei Aitzhanov: But if we will go deeply to the specific
things like transport or buildings or

Andrei Aitzhanov: energy,
then we will get a lot of specific things.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Do you think what kind of platform or
tool we can use for?

Andrei Aitzhanov: Aggregate this and I I'm thinking about a
VYS and to be honest because I used

David Thomson: Hmm.

Andrei Aitzhanov: before and as per my experience it's
really.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Powerful products Aviva ISM Information
Standard Management tool. It's.

David Thomson: Yeah.

Olivier Doucet: What is it? Sorry.

Olivier Doucet: Hmm.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Yeah, but it's, yeah.

David Thomson: Kind of does change management on
information.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Standards.

David Thomson: Standards, which is is quite cool. Yeah,
I mean I'm I'm open to anything this.

David Thomson: So when we run this work stream,
you know one of the the sub,

David Thomson: you know work stream items will be do we
need tech enablement like do we need a

Andrei Aitzhanov: Topics.

David Thomson: tool to help us to do this,
you know and do we.

David Thomson: Is there something we can buy or is it
something we have to build or do we do in

Olivier Doucet: Hmm.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.

David Thomson: Excel? You know,
so I I think for all of these work

David Thomson: streams there will be a tech enablement
element which is like do we need a tool

Andrei Aitzhanov: Mhm, no.

David Thomson: or something to help us?

David Thomson: By the way,
I don't like these work streams as they

Olivier Doucet: Hmm.

David Thomson: are, and I'll explain to you why,
but that's that's how how they were given

David Thomson: to me.
So I said let's complete the the work in

David Thomson: these work streams and then maybe we can
move to a different kind.

David Thomson: So I added this one as well,
platform and technology enablement.

David Thomson: So this is the discussion we're having
and it it will turn into pods I guess

David Thomson: wherever we need you know to to you know
spin up a team to build something.

David Thomson: Or a team to, you know,
implement a piece of software.

David Thomson: So I just put in there, you know,
there's there's some tech enablement

David Thomson: needed around the data model.
Like where do we document this?

Andrei Aitzhanov: Mhm.

David Thomson: How do we manage it?
How can we do that efficiently?

David Thomson: I put in our, you know,
our idea about gathering knowledge

David Thomson: somehow. You know, again,
we need to determine if this is high

David Thomson: priority or not.
I put in here specifically project

David Thomson: initialization and provisioning as well.
That's, you know, probably a.

David Thomson: Tech enablement topic.

David Thomson: Project data extraction and again it
needs a discussion like which use cases

David Thomson: does it support and a sort of open
interoperability layer.

David Thomson: Several people talk to me, you know,
but open BIM standards and.

David Thomson: Is probably the way to go if you if you
want to be vendor agnostic,

David Thomson: you know with this interoerability.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Mm.

David Thomson: So there's probably more there, but OK,
I don't really like these because

Olivier Doucet: It.

David Thomson: especially in this case,
it's kind of talking about the tool,

David Thomson: sorry,
the connected production ecosystems and

David Thomson: not the outcome. So speaking to these,
you know, senior managements.

David Thomson: For me,
I prefer to do like a work stream based

David Thomson: on our outcome. So for example,
we need to deliver projects, you know,

David Thomson: really well, excellently.
And then in order to do that,

Andrei Aitzhanov: Mhm.

David Thomson: you know you end up with some tasks
basically.

David Thomson: Which is like go and document all of the
processes and come up with, you know,

David Thomson: best practices.

David Thomson: So it's it's kind of just flips the thing
around saying instead of understanding

David Thomson: processes we we make the work stream
deliver excellent projects.

David Thomson: But in order to do that we need to
understand our processes better and and

David Thomson: come up with better processes.

David Thomson: So yeah, at some point I'll, you know,
rename or transfer the work into these

David Thomson: different work streams which are more
like outcome based you could say.

Olivier Doucet: Totally agree, yeah.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Yeah, yeah.

David Thomson: And this is very much work and focus,
but one topic I'd like your opinion on

David Thomson: there there was an outcome, there was a.

David Thomson: I think a task.

David Thomson: Yeah,
but real-time collaboration under the

David Thomson: Autodesk, you know, umbrella and well,
in my experience, you know,

Olivier Doucet: Mm.

David Thomson: collaboration is is super,
super important on every project over a

David Thomson: certain size, you know,
when it's like more than five people.

David Thomson: And well, in Aviva days, you know,
we were very envious of Navisworks

David Thomson: because we we always wanted a product
like this. We had Aviva review,

David Thomson: but Navisworks, you know,
was was like the single, you know,

David Thomson: everything when every company somehow
used Navisworks to.

Andrei Aitzhanov: No, it's like a Microsoft Office, yeah.

David Thomson: To collaborate, right?

David Thomson: Yeah, and now, I mean, they didn't.
I don't know if they made much money from

David Thomson: that, but you know,
it was like the defacto tool to look at

David Thomson: your models because they supported,
you know, every import.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Every import here 45 or 46 standards now.

David Thomson: Yeah, and then.

David Thomson: There's one line item there, but you know,
have a a single way to do collaboration.

David Thomson: For me, again,
it's the product manager thinking this is

David Thomson: like if we do one thing that probably
would bring the most benefit if you can

David Thomson: come up with a unified way to collaborate
regardless of which tools you use.

David Thomson: It it that feels like actually a really
big win and OK,

Olivier Doucet: Mm.

David Thomson: I I I need to dig further like where are
we with this topic?

Olivier Doucet: Mm.

David Thomson: Is everybody using Navisworks anyway?
So it's not a topic.

David Thomson: It sounds like people are using Autodesk
Construction Cloud viewer now.

David Thomson: Um.

Olivier Doucet: Not everyone, but yeah.

David Thomson: OK, but the people who have ACC,
so because I saw this comments like I

Olivier Doucet: Yeah.

David Thomson: don't want to open Revit and you know
damage the model or but as you guys know

David Thomson: there's there's lots of.

David Thomson: Challenges around making collaboration
work.

David Thomson: OI put that on as a work stream because.

David Thomson: Could be something that brings a lot of
benefit.

Olivier Doucet: I think it's a really good point, David.
And yeah,

Olivier Doucet: that's one one thing that can bring a lot
of lot of value focusing on improving

Olivier Doucet: collaboration. I see this, yeah,
having sharing the information and having

Olivier Doucet: this federated models easily accessible.

David Thomson: Yeah.

Olivier Doucet: For everyone is really good.
And also another point I wanted to

Olivier Doucet: mention when I discussed with my
colleague yesterday was this or actually

Olivier Doucet: it was earlier this morning another
colleague and he was he's implementing in

Olivier Doucet: one of his projects some sort of
dashboard or a big list.

Olivier Doucet: I think he uses a SharePoint list where
all of the models that are worked on in

Olivier Doucet: the project regardless of the discipline
or area of the project,

Olivier Doucet: they're all listed with some attributes
and that highlights the expectations.

Olivier Doucet: The date of delivery,
which work package they belong to,

David Thomson: Mm.

Olivier Doucet: what is the work breakdown structure and
who has sort of ownership of it so people

David Thomson: Mm.

Olivier Doucet: can see at once.

Olivier Doucet: Like a big list and they don't have to
navigate the folder structure or inside

Olivier Doucet: ACC or whatever project hotel that you
are using.

Olivier Doucet: So they have this aggregated view and
then he's building a Power BI dashboard

Olivier Doucet: on top of this SharePoint list.

Olivier Doucet: So that you can visualize all of the
models and the the drawings or the assets

Olivier Doucet: or artifacts that people are actually
producing.

Olivier Doucet: You have like this centralized dashboard
and it's classified according to whatever

Olivier Doucet: you know metric that that makes sense.
I I can't remember the details of it,

Olivier Doucet: but that he said is a huge.

Olivier Doucet: Improvement in in project collaboration.
It has been received with a lot of

Olivier Doucet: positivity and yeah,
some projects where people are working

Olivier Doucet: and they don't have this,
they say it's it makes a difference.

Olivier Doucet: So I think this could be also one of this.

Olivier Doucet: 1.

Olivier Doucet: Of the you know how to implement this
sort of collaboration.

David Thomson: Maybe. Um.

Olivier Doucet: One one way of of of contributing,
you know, to towards this achievement.

David Thomson: Yeah,
maybe I'll make a a page on this topic

David Thomson: and you can just drop some notes in there
about that.

David Thomson: But it it sounds like it's I've yeah,
I I I think it's a lot of stuff can be.

Olivier Doucet: Yeah.

David Thomson: Done to improve this but.

David Thomson: Yeah, So what I I guess I ask you is that.

David Thomson: There's load, I think,
loads of work to do around this

David Thomson: foundational stuff.

David Thomson: And yeah,
I would like to build something to to,

David Thomson: you know, bring some benefits.

David Thomson: Short term,
so people see we're building something,

David Thomson: it's real, you know, they feel like, OK,
UP is not not just a concept, it's it's,

David Thomson: you know,
I have this place to go and yeah,

David Thomson: maybe in the short term we're not really
going to start to build something, but.

David Thomson: Also think about tech enablement.
So maybe we will build something,

David Thomson: but it's not the platform itself,
it's these enablers that allow us to do

David Thomson: the foundational work more quickly.
But I I will put a big flag in the ground

Olivier Doucet: Hmm.

David Thomson: around collaboration because you know,
it could be that's one thing we could.

David Thomson: You know, work on to take this,
you know this idea of the SharePoint

David Thomson: repository with.
I mean it sounds it sounds really useful.

Olivier Doucet: H.

David Thomson: You know to to to productize that and
roll it out,

Olivier Doucet: Oh yeah, and and.

David Thomson: you know that probably would have a huge
benefit.

Olivier Doucet: Enable us here.

Andrei Aitzhanov: I have one idea actually.

Andrei Aitzhanov: What if we will try to use the list of
deliverables that we are providing to our

Andrei Aitzhanov: clients?
This is usually our part of the contract

Andrei Aitzhanov: with the client and we have to it's a
it's a master document register something

David Thomson: Hmm.

Andrei Aitzhanov: for that.
We need to specify what kind of documents

Andrei Aitzhanov: we will deliver to our clients and then
if.

Andrei Aitzhanov: We will identify from this huge list what
kind of of documentation we can automate

Andrei Aitzhanov: or we can structuralize or we can
establish our tools for provide this in

Andrei Aitzhanov: more proper way or more faster.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Something like that.
Then I think that it's a kind of fast

Andrei Aitzhanov: results that we can achieve because then
we could say, OK,

Andrei Aitzhanov: because I can predict that engineers will
ask why we are developing this because

Andrei Aitzhanov: there are no any real value. Yeah,
who will pay for that and etcetera.

Andrei Aitzhanov: It's a lot of.

Andrei Aitzhanov: But if we will provide them the the this
I would say real documents that they

Andrei Aitzhanov: could deliver like a data sheets or I
don't know line list or something like

Andrei Aitzhanov: that even it's it's it were developed or
define it in not in the database centric.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Approach,
but it's kind of automated Excel or

Andrei Aitzhanov: something like that.
But we will deliver this as a first

Andrei Aitzhanov: results.
People will see the benefits and value

Andrei Aitzhanov: and then they will support us with the
next steps and next.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Iterations without this huge work with
the data models and etcetera. Yeah,

David Thomson: Yeah, I.

Andrei Aitzhanov: that's just idea.

David Thomson: I I think like both of these things.
So this is our kind of page now platform

David Thomson: and technology enablement, you know,
put these ideas in there and.

David Thomson: Yeah, I I kind of like this idea.
This is what I would expect that we take

David Thomson: these ideas from either from like a GBA,
somebody who's done something to make

David Thomson: their life easier and we, you know,
productize them and roll them out.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Mhm, mhm.

David Thomson: Or like your kind of master deliverables
management register,

David Thomson: something like this as well.
That's these are these are things which I

David Thomson: think can be effectively productized one
way or another and then rolled out,

David Thomson: you know, under the UP umbrella.

David Thomson: And if they, you know,
we need to find a balance of making

David Thomson: incremental progress so people see
something and there will be these these

David Thomson: low hanging fruits, you know,
as long as I can tie them, you know,

David Thomson: to an overarching story which is like, OK,
these are.

David Thomson: Utilities. These are, you know,
these are contributing to the project

David Thomson: delivery excellence work stream, right?

Andrei Aitzhanov: You bring very great idea David.
I think that we can utilise already

Olivier Doucet: Mm.

Andrei Aitzhanov: existing prototypes,
proof of concepts that we we have a lot

Andrei Aitzhanov: in Rambo, we have a lot of these things.
What we can do,

David Thomson: Hmm.

Andrei Aitzhanov: we can analyze the pool of these
prototypes and understand what they are

Andrei Aitzhanov: really.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Can do and if they we can productize
these tools like in my case I I used a

Andrei Aitzhanov: specific tool for extract data from
schematic drawings like tech to doc

David Thomson: Hmm.

Andrei Aitzhanov: scanner or.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Pin ID viewer and etcetera.
I know that this is relevant for another

Andrei Aitzhanov: project, yeah,
but this is was developed only for one

Andrei Aitzhanov: project and we then was this because it's
just be used only once.

Andrei Aitzhanov: I see that we have a lot of this kind of
cases and if we can.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Have a some kind of repository where we
could list all these tools like your

Andrei Aitzhanov: products Oliver BM bot. Yeah,
or I know that Daniel also developed

Andrei Aitzhanov: something and there are a lot of people
who will develop something and we can.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Aggregate this and understand what we can
reuse and productize and then provide

Andrei Aitzhanov: this as a first result because it's a
minimum efforts from our end.

Andrei Aitzhanov: We already have prototypes and this is
quite big step for.

David Thomson: Yeah, I I asked Ronnie for this actually,
because I said, is there a list of older,

Andrei Aitzhanov: People.

David Thomson: you know, our homemade products?
And I think there is inside DPE and

David Thomson: there's another one under tech governance.

Olivier Doucet: Hmm.

David Thomson: But what I I can't do is like map them
like where they used on the lifecycle or

David Thomson: which kind of projects that they used for.

David Thomson: Yeah, I mean, I I think that's part of it.
Ideally, you know, we would.

David Thomson: If we had unlimited time and budget,
we would take these utilities and you

David Thomson: know,
make them on a a common tech stack and

David Thomson: with a with a, you know,
unified user experience.

Olivier Doucet: Hmm.

David Thomson: But maybe it's not possible,
but I'm I'm happy to work in both

David Thomson: directions like we do this kind of
distributed.

David Thomson: You know, point solutions,
we really think it's is is global and

David Thomson: then some things are more like on the
platform level,

Olivier Doucet: Hmm.

David Thomson: but I think a lot of it will be like tech
enablement which is just like smaller.

David Thomson: Point solutions in the beginning.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Yeah,
we're kind of micro services as this is

David Thomson: Yeah, yeah.

Andrei Aitzhanov: what we also discussed that our solution
should be like a micro service

David Thomson: Yeah.

Andrei Aitzhanov: architecture and we can productise this
as a micro services,

Andrei Aitzhanov: connect this to the unified API and then
people will use it out-of-the-box.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Based on the best practices and I don't
know,

Andrei Aitzhanov: it's looks logical to try to reuse and
unify what you already have instead of

David Thomson: Hmm.

Andrei Aitzhanov: trying to redevelop something so.

David Thomson: Yeah.

David Thomson: Absolutely. So yeah, again, predicted.
Well, we would just talk,

Andrei Aitzhanov: Oh.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Yeah.

David Thomson: but I really appreciate it.
We just have to up to the hour, right or?

Andrei Aitzhanov: Yeah, yes.

Olivier Doucet: Yeah, I can.

David Thomson: Oh yeah, I have. OK, but yeah, anything.
Feel free to like add anything you want

David Thomson: underneath here,
like a ideas page or some some

Andrei Aitzhanov: Mhm.

Olivier Doucet: Yeah.

David Thomson: description of this SharePoint approach
and and how it's used.

Olivier Doucet: Yeah, I'll. I'll do that.

David Thomson: And if you have a new work stream,
you know a sub work stream,

David Thomson: just add that as well.

Olivier Doucet: Hmm.

Andrei Aitzhanov: OK, for sure.
But at least if we can record and

Olivier Doucet: Perfect.

Andrei Aitzhanov: recognise this session,
I think that we can also extract the

David Thomson: Yeah.

Andrei Aitzhanov: insights. Yeah. OK, yeah, OK, yeah,
same to you.

David Thomson: Good stuff from it. All right, guys.
Have a good one. Thanks again. Bye, bye.

Olivier Doucet: Thank you. Bye, bye.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Same to you. Bye bye.

