David Thomson: As well.
And some companies have this challenge to

David Thomson: hand over the data into the construction
phase.

David Thomson: So I think that's some kind of
requirement. How important is it?

David Thomson: I'm not too sure.

David Thomson: Um.

David Thomson: But yeah,
we we should like keep a note of that.

David Thomson: I think it's it could come up.
I mean we should build this in a way

David Thomson: which is, you know,
future proof for that scenario.

Olivier Doucet: Mm.

David Thomson: The other thing that came up with the
architecture GBA was.

David Thomson: They said, you know,
they do the architecture,

David Thomson: but then they use other parts of Rambo
for the structure or the MEP.

David Thomson: And sometimes they it doesn't need to be
Rambo, they will use Arup even.

David Thomson: So I wonder if this is less important,
but you know some of these big mega

David Thomson: projects will be executed.

David Thomson: With other partners.
So just like Aviva projects,

Olivier Doucet: Mm.

David Thomson: you need this ability to talk and
exchange with the other, you know,

David Thomson: engineering contractors as well.

Olivier Doucet: Yeah,
I think that's that's something that can

Olivier Doucet: happen that we are being dictated.
You know,

David Thomson: Mhm.

Olivier Doucet: we have to use this system because of a
partner or a client. So that's a really,

Olivier Doucet: really good thing to have in mind.
We don't have full control of the

Olivier Doucet: environment.

David Thomson: Yeah.

Olivier Doucet: Always.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Another idea that I keep in mind that
regards master data management.

Andrei Aitzhanov: I don't know if it's also should be
presented on the what what section,

Andrei Aitzhanov: but the idea that we can integrate all
our.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Reference data into common database and
then reuse it for our projects. Yeah,

Andrei Aitzhanov: but it's some kind of, I don't know.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Yeah,
reference database for extract and

Andrei Aitzhanov: collect our.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Best practices and and our reference data.
Wicker materials, piping materials,

David Thomson: Mm.

Andrei Aitzhanov: fluids.

Andrei Aitzhanov: And another information that we have
select a legacy from the previous

Andrei Aitzhanov: projects,
but we can reuse it in the future or

Andrei Aitzhanov: maybe we can review it and consider this
as a part of our best practices or

Andrei Aitzhanov: something like that. So that's.

David Thomson: I think all all all these topics are are
relevant and we should, you know,

David Thomson: take a note of them.
It could be that some of them are more

David Thomson: relevant for individual GPAS and maybe
they already have some process or some

David Thomson: tooling.

David Thomson: In in the in place. Um.

David Thomson: I I think this is so the the reason I
need to be a bit careful is the UPE could

David Thomson: do everything in my mind, you know,
should do everything.

David Thomson: But I think some GBAs will argue why are
we paying for that? You know,

David Thomson: we manage our materials or our standards
perfectly well. We don't, we don't.

David Thomson: Don't need another, you know,
another thing on top,

Olivier Doucet: Hmm.

David Thomson: even if they maybe don't manage it in the
most data centric way.

Olivier Doucet: Yeah.

David Thomson: But they will claim, you know,
we have this already.

Olivier Doucet: Mm.

David Thomson: It's a working process.
We don't need because I don't know if

David Thomson: they will have to pay for this yet,
but at some point we might start asking

David Thomson: them to pay for it, you know?

Andrei Aitzhanov: Yeah, definitely, but.

David Thomson: So.

Olivier Doucet: Yeah.

Olivier Doucet: Typical uh setup.

Andrei Aitzhanov: And maybe one philosophic question from
your perspective and your understanding

David Thomson: Yeah.

Andrei Aitzhanov: point of view,
how it should work in principle?

Andrei Aitzhanov: Is it kind of platform?

Andrei Aitzhanov: Or web application or or I don't know
some central database that project people.

Andrei Aitzhanov: I mean that project team from transport
or from energy can use for initiate new

Andrei Aitzhanov: project for instance I am energy.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Guy from substation project, yeah,
and I know that for this kind of projects

Andrei Aitzhanov: I always using the same naming rules or
same workflows and et cetera, et cetera,

Andrei Aitzhanov: these kind of things.

Andrei Aitzhanov: How it will work in principle? Yeah,
I just will open the, I don't know,

Andrei Aitzhanov: portfolio with the list of types of the
projects.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Will click on the interface that I want
to initiate new project.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Then I will initiate this project and all
connected templates, reports, workflows.

Andrei Aitzhanov: To be automatically deployed for my
project in SharePoint teams as a Kanban

Andrei Aitzhanov: board. I don't know,
it's just like examples here.

Andrei Aitzhanov: I also will automatically deploy Aviva
database template project.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Maybe Revits and and this IC structure
and etcetera. So what do you think?

Andrei Aitzhanov: How it should work?
Just maybe we can also based on this we

Andrei Aitzhanov: can understand what we should include in
the scope.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Uh, because that's.

David Thomson: Yeah, I.

David Thomson: It's a very good question. Yeah,
I think the maybe the most basic.

David Thomson: Worm is, yeah,
some kind of web interface portal you go

David Thomson: to you.
It has this basic data model that we

David Thomson: talked about last time.
You know what what's a project,

David Thomson: what are the disciplines,
what are the geographical areas,

David Thomson: what are the standards associated with it?
So some kind of data model there.

David Thomson: And you say make a new project, it knows.
Then you know behind the scenes it knows

David Thomson: what databases, what CDE,
what repositories, what tools to set up.

David Thomson: That was my that was my initial thought,
you know,

Andrei Aitzhanov: No.

David Thomson: some kind of web interface to kind of
kick things off.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Mm-hmm.

Olivier Doucet: Mm-hmm. Yeah.

David Thomson: And maybe this web interface needs to be.
It needs to be built in a way that

David Thomson: there's something good in there that
forces you, not forces you,

David Thomson: but encourages you to use this.

David Thomson: Anytime you're doing any work,
so let's say you want to start the day's

Andrei Aitzhanov: Hmm.

David Thomson: work,
you go into the UPE dashboard and it says

David Thomson: OK,
you're working on this work package or

David Thomson: whatever task it is,
and then you from there you fire off

Andrei Aitzhanov: Mhm.

David Thomson: Revit or Aviva or whatever.

David Thomson: Um, but I was.
I was also having a little bit of this.

David Thomson: A little bit not mature thought like
maybe does that change and become more

David Thomson: like an agent that's running all the time
and knows what you're what you're doing,

David Thomson: what you're working on and it becomes
like less more like this invisible

David Thomson: computing.

David Thomson: Type of concept where it's not in your
face,

David Thomson: but I think the practical thing to do is,
you know, some kind of.

David Thomson: Dashboard tool that you log into in the
morning and it's it guides you and you

David Thomson: have it, you know,
running on the on the on the background

David Thomson: and something more like that I think is
the practical thing to build.

Andrei Aitzhanov: David,
did you work with the the soul to the

Andrei Aitzhanov: experience platform before?
Because what you are talking about,

David Thomson: Yeah, I did. I did, yeah.

Andrei Aitzhanov: it's very similar for the 2D experience
concept that you have widgets.

David Thomson: Yeah.

David Thomson: Yeah.

Andrei Aitzhanov: In the web interface and you can
customize it based on the type of the

Andrei Aitzhanov: your project and then you can click on
the dashboard with the plannings,

Andrei Aitzhanov: dashboard with the connect connected to
the cut tools dashboard to the connected

Andrei Aitzhanov: documents and then you can navigate to
the specific engineering tools document.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Management system planning to and do your
real daily work here.

Andrei Aitzhanov: That's I think that it's very similar to
the or another system concept.

Andrei Aitzhanov: You have common entry point,
you can control the metrics of the

Andrei Aitzhanov: project, you can and you can predefine it.
You have a predefined.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Define the templates of your I would say
widgets and and your instruments that you

Andrei Aitzhanov: are using on daily basis.
So exactly what you need to use this this

David Thomson: Yeah, we we should definitely look,
look at that. Have you seen that, Olivier?

Andrei Aitzhanov: day for and let's understand.

Olivier Doucet: No, I haven't.
Not sure what we are discussing.

David Thomson: It's I I was there.
I'll try to find some video for you cause

David Thomson: I was there from the beginning when they
developed this thing and the first

David Thomson: version was very different they they
because it's a very 3D orientated company.

Olivier Doucet: Mhm.

David Thomson: They believed the entry point to the work
should be the 3D model, right?

David Thomson: Which wasn't a bad idea.
So they developed a nice rendering

Olivier Doucet: Um.

David Thomson: technology. You open the model in like a,
you know, Navis works like a cache mode,

David Thomson: very lightweight model,
and then you went into your job. But then.

David Thomson: In the process industry,
they realized when you're doing diagrams

David Thomson: and system design, you don't have 3D,
right? Like a lot of the work is just 2D,

Olivier Doucet: Yeah.

Olivier Doucet: So you create a dependency on like things
that you don't need.

David Thomson: so.

David Thomson: Yeah, so they they changed the paradigm.
So in the beginning it was the 3D model

David Thomson: as the entry point and then they kind of
changed it into like a record player,

David Thomson: this rotating disk and you had like they
use this thing, functional, logical.

David Thomson: Physical something else.
It's like systems engineering approach.

David Thomson: So you start with requirements,
then you do functional design,

Olivier Doucet: Hmm.

David Thomson: logical design, physical design, mechanic,
whatever it was.

David Thomson: So that's actually not too bad a paradigm
like the systems engineering approach.

Olivier Doucet: Hmm.

David Thomson: Start from requirements,
then you have functional design.

David Thomson: Design, then detailed design,
then construction design, whatever.

David Thomson: But yeah,
that's how they stopped when I was there.

David Thomson: They basically stopped and I think now 3D
experience,

Olivier Doucet: Mm.

David Thomson: we'll probably find some video Andrei,
which is like more.

David Thomson: Yeah,
LinkedIn to everything these days like

David Thomson: document management system, PLM, um,
simulation, so.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Yeah, it's a trip. Yeah, yeah.

Olivier Doucet: What is this called?

David Thomson: This is 3D experience is is their naming
for this and they know it's access to all

David Thomson: their hundreds of applications behind the
scenes.

Olivier Doucet: Yeah.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Yeah, yeah.

David Thomson: But it's it's typical clunky,
the so sort of.

David Thomson: Not I was going to say French,
but French in the way that Charles de

Olivier Doucet: Um.

David Thomson: Gaulle Terminal One is, you know, special.

Olivier Doucet: Ha ha.

Olivier Doucet: Yeah.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Yeah, but As for me,
this is really comprehensive solution.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Yeah, from 1 aspect,
but at the same time it's very flexible

Andrei Aitzhanov: and what I really like,
I worked in the source system.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Many years ago, but yeah, yeah,
that's I I know internal kitchen,

David Thomson: Yeah.

Andrei Aitzhanov: but that what's what I observed that
actually you can customise the user

Andrei Aitzhanov: interface as per.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Rows you you have a matrix of the rows
for the project for the for for the

David Thomson: Hmm.

Andrei Aitzhanov: template and you can define that for this
for for engineer we need to represent 3D

Andrei Aitzhanov: model viewer with a connected PBS or GPS.
You can also connect documents.

Andrei Aitzhanov: List of MDR for instance,
master document register and and

Andrei Aitzhanov: properties and etcetera etcetera.
So for project manager it's not make

Andrei Aitzhanov: sense to have this detailed engineers
engineering deliverables widgets but you

Andrei Aitzhanov: need to have.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Chart. I forget the name of this.
It's Gantt. Gantt's chart. Yeah, yeah,

David Thomson: The project plan, the Power BI stuff.
Yeah, Gantt charts.

Andrei Aitzhanov: yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
This kind of things.

Andrei Aitzhanov: And then you can identify what is
important for for which kind of users.

Andrei Aitzhanov: And then by default if you will
authorized in this system,

Andrei Aitzhanov: you will see exactly what is relevant for
you and then you can track your metrics

David Thomson: And.

Andrei Aitzhanov: or your specific.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Deliverables.
So here and and and yeah that's also part

Andrei Aitzhanov: of the through the experience but it they
they they have some kind of it's a

Andrei Aitzhanov: compass I I think I believe they use this
yeah yeah yeah that that's just to switch

David Thomson: Yeah, they call it.

Andrei Aitzhanov: to different kind of tools you can.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Select 3D model tools.
You can select documents,

Andrei Aitzhanov: document management tools and et cetera,
et cetera. But it's a.

Olivier Doucet: So is this is this a launcher type of
application like where you start?

Olivier Doucet: It's like the the sort of a homepage for
a engineer and then you you launch the

Andrei Aitzhanov: Bing.

Olivier Doucet: different applications from there.
Is that kind of the idea of this what

Andrei Aitzhanov: Some something like, yeah, something like,
but actually most of the applications are

Olivier Doucet: we're looking at or?

Andrei Aitzhanov: integrated into this platform.
It's a it's all web widgets and web

David Thomson: Mm.

Andrei Aitzhanov: applications.

Andrei Aitzhanov: They have a CATIA,
they have a SolidWorks as a separate

Olivier Doucet: Mm.

Andrei Aitzhanov: tools and this is for sure you need to
install as a desktop application. Yeah,

Andrei Aitzhanov: but for widgets for viewers,
it's fully integrated into web.

David Thomson: Mm.

Olivier Doucet: I mean.

Andrei Aitzhanov: So it's not different. Yeah, Yep.

David Thomson: I think their strategy was to make,
you know,

David Thomson: Katia into a web app as well or or maybe
Solidworks. They start with that, but.

Olivier Doucet: Mm.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Yeah, yeah, yeah, I think so. I think so.
Yeah.

Andrei Aitzhanov: I don't know exactly the status here.

David Thomson: Right.

David Thomson: I think this is interesting because for
does so.

David Thomson: I don't know how much you know about them,
Olivier,

David Thomson: but they they try to have like everything.
They they try to have like really,

Olivier Doucet: A little bit.

David Thomson: really the the mother of all platforms.
So you never need to leave their

Olivier Doucet: Mm.

David Thomson: ecosystem.

David Thomson: And I think they do have most parts,
you know, they acquired, who was it?

David Thomson: Ansys, they, you know,
they they have two or three mechanical

David Thomson: design tools,
two or three product lifecycle management

Olivier Doucet: Mm.

David Thomson: tools, simulation,
you know they they they try to keep you

David Thomson: inside their ecosystem which.

Olivier Doucet: Hmm.

David Thomson: You know, customers hate so.

Olivier Doucet: Yeah, I mean,
Autodesk is doing that as well to some

Olivier Doucet: extent.

David Thomson: Everybody's trying to do this and I
always, you know,

Olivier Doucet: Yeah.

David Thomson: I thought that's not very attractive for
customers because nobody wants to put all

David Thomson: their eggs in one basket really.
But for the UPE,

David Thomson: it's actually quite appropriate, you know,
to the idea of.

Olivier Doucet: Mm.

David Thomson: You know one entry point and and widgets
and the fact that you know our our

David Thomson: suppliers are are are making more and
more kind of web-based tools or you know

David Thomson: maybe ACC needs to appear inside that
framework and you just have a small

Olivier Doucet: Yeah.

David Thomson: toolbar at the top you know from UPE.

David Thomson: Um, please, I was going to just ask you,
what do you think about the how this

Olivier Doucet: I have a different opinion actually.

Olivier Doucet: So for me,
I would like to maybe step back a little

David Thomson: should work?

Olivier Doucet: bit.
I'm not too focused on what it looks like

Andrei Aitzhanov: OK.

Olivier Doucet: necessarily at this point.
I think it's a bit early to try to tackle

Olivier Doucet: the visual aspect and all of that.
I was more and that's what I tried to

David Thomson: Hmm.

Olivier Doucet: start with on the what, you know,
these different features.

Olivier Doucet: Features and once we have these different
capabilities,

David Thomson: Yeah.

Olivier Doucet: because I think there is so much to cover,
you can't possibly cram everything in one

Olivier Doucet: use interface.
So I believe in depending who you are and

Olivier Doucet: what you do on the project,
if you are one of the persons who is

Olivier Doucet: supposed to work on this provisioning or
deprovisioning.

Olivier Doucet: Sort of control plane.
Then you probably have a dedicated page

Olivier Doucet: that most engineers will never see
because it's not like everyone who is

David Thomson: Yeah, yeah.

Olivier Doucet: going to be granted permission to go
ahead and provision an environment.

Olivier Doucet: So that is going to be its own thing I
guess.

Olivier Doucet: It might well be served by the same UP
web application,

Olivier Doucet: but it would be like a reserved page
altogether.

Olivier Doucet: A reserved module for the engineers who
are working on the project.

Olivier Doucet: Definitely.
I think there should be some sort of

Olivier Doucet: landing page where you can see the
different applications depending on what

Olivier Doucet: discipline you are identified as,
and all of this data is kind of already

Olivier Doucet: in our.

Olivier Doucet: Azure Entra ID.
We have a lot we can derive from where

Olivier Doucet: people are sitting some capability.
We don't need to necessarily go and tag

David Thomson: Mhm.

Olivier Doucet: everyone,
but having a bunch of tools that you

Olivier Doucet: expect a certain person to work with.

Olivier Doucet: With.

Olivier Doucet: And also having the context of the
project. So if I'm like, I don't know,

Olivier Doucet: landscape architect and I work at the
moment on let's say five different

Olivier Doucet: projects,
I want this like maybe a drop down.

Olivier Doucet: You know at the top with all of the
projects that I work with and I can

Olivier Doucet: select OK now I'm gonna work on this
project and when I do that the context of

Olivier Doucet: my application changes and if I start
maybe some application or I'm already

Olivier Doucet: injecting this is the project ID for this
project.

Olivier Doucet: So if I wanna open ACC or if I wanna open
AutoCAD,

Olivier Doucet: maybe it takes me directly to this
project and it can seed the environment

Olivier Doucet: with the project context.
So some sort of launcher.

Olivier Doucet: That allows you to select which project
you want to work on,

Olivier Doucet: but you can maybe have also an aggregated
view when it comes to your schedule if

Olivier Doucet: you want to see you know how am I doing
with my time,

Olivier Doucet: my deadlines and all of that.

Olivier Doucet: But now we are leaning more into the
planning delivery aspect of it.

Olivier Doucet: So it's all about what do we want to
prioritize and what and yeah,

Olivier Doucet: more of the back end,
how things will look. I mean, yeah,

Olivier Doucet: maybe we have to do that because that's
what.

Olivier Doucet: People relate to I'm more of a back end
person,

Olivier Doucet: so I think more in terms of what needs to
be there to happen. But yeah,

Andrei Aitzhanov: Building books. Yeah, I built. Yeah, I'm.

Olivier Doucet: I appreciate it's good to have also a
presentation to get some buy in, you know.

David Thomson: It's it's a good it's a good team with
this back end and and and front end focus

David Thomson: because yeah that's exactly what's needed.
I I agree you know the the UI kind of

David Thomson: comes later but.

David Thomson: Um, one thing.

David Thomson: That it helps to, let's say, get buy-in,
you know,

David Thomson: on this is like imagine this is how
you're running the project.

Olivier Doucet: Yeah, yeah, I get that.

David Thomson: But I think what you described is
actually pretty close to the 3D

David Thomson: experience idea. You know,
you have a contextual dashboard.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Yeah, no.

David Thomson: Role, you know, role based.
If you're a project manager will show you

David Thomson: or if you're an admin,
you know will show you predominantly the

David Thomson: tools you need.
If you're an architect on a project,

David Thomson: that will show you a different view and I
think it is good.

Olivier Doucet: Mm.

David Thomson: We we should think about, you know,
what is the experience of using this

David Thomson: upfront,
because sometimes that can determine a

David Thomson: lot about the architecture. But yeah,
I I think that was a good discussion to

Olivier Doucet: Um.

David Thomson: have, at least to put in our minds.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Yeah,
maybe it makes sense to discuss how we

Andrei Aitzhanov: can collect and integrate our results of
our discussion in the chart. Oliver,

Andrei Aitzhanov: I think that we can continue use your.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Your file? Yeah, that's.

Olivier Doucet: Yeah, exactly. You did.
You did post some points last week and we

Olivier Doucet: should definitely address those. So yeah.

David Thomson: Quick question,
do we need like a common working space to

Andrei Aitzhanov: No.

David Thomson: put these files and our discussions?

Olivier Doucet: Right.
So I started actually and I I'm sorry

Olivier Doucet: because I I forgot to to communicate to
that David. But yes, this files I was,

David Thomson: Open.

Olivier Doucet: I mean it's not so much for now.
I can share it again what we were looking

Olivier Doucet: at last week. So this brainstorming.

Olivier Doucet: Data.
Actually I have put it in a very minimal

Olivier Doucet: Git repository that I can actually expose
this as a wiki and I'm currently hosting

David Thomson: OK.

Olivier Doucet: it inside Azure DevOps and I think I can
give you some access to this.

Olivier Doucet: And send you a link and you can tell me
if you if you are able to to access so I

David Thomson: OK,
I I should have a ADO like a full access

Olivier Doucet: think.

David Thomson: to that because I'm a product manager,
so I haven't tried it yet, but I I should.

Olivier Doucet: Yeah.

Olivier Doucet: I can, I can, yeah,
try to fix that quickly and see if I'm

Olivier Doucet: able actually to to set that up because I
think.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Is it in? Is it in Azure?
OK and maybe we have some kind of tool

Andrei Aitzhanov: for work with the MD files in Azure or we
have to use Visual Studio Codes for

Andrei Aitzhanov: modify this. Oliver,
what do you think is it?

Olivier Doucet: Yeah,
maybe maybe this is a bit too code

Olivier Doucet: oriented.
I don't know if if you because I started

Olivier Doucet: like this using like this repo and you
know just basic MD file that can be

Andrei Aitzhanov: No.

Olivier Doucet: rendered.

Olivier Doucet: But for maybe you know docs or or
whatever,

Andrei Aitzhanov: Uh, OK.

Olivier Doucet: we could also have like a SharePoint or
something.

Andrei Aitzhanov: No, no, no.
I I I see that it's suggested in a text

Andrei Aitzhanov: file. We can modify. Yeah, yeah,
we can modify in text format, yeah.

Olivier Doucet: This is just text, yeah, and I can.
I think I can create a here wiki.

Olivier Doucet: I can probably add create a project wiki
or publish code as wiki.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Mm-hmm.

Olivier Doucet: I think that's what you do.
And then I'm supposed to pick a was it a

Andrei Aitzhanov: Mhm.

Olivier Doucet: folder?

Olivier Doucet: Oh yeah, I think it does it.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Yeah,
I think that it's a great idea that we

Andrei Aitzhanov: can publish our transcriptions and
recordings of the session and another

Andrei Aitzhanov: point that I can try to extract text from
our conversation and also try to use LOM

Andrei Aitzhanov: for summarize and maybe get some.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Kind of yeah comments and that we can use
for integrating to the this this diagram.

Olivier Doucet: Mm.

Andrei Aitzhanov: So we we need to maybe we also need to
discuss the the principles here how we're

David Thomson: M.

Andrei Aitzhanov: going to work in and integrate our ideas
into the document.

Andrei Aitzhanov: And how we can represent this finally to
the and other people. That's also ideal,

Olivier Doucet: Um.

Andrei Aitzhanov: but we can use MD for now as a as a
source file.

David Thomson: Yeah.

Andrei Aitzhanov: And then finally once we will discuss and
integrate all our ideas,

Andrei Aitzhanov: we can transfer this to the PowerPoint
presentation or I don't know anything.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Else just to represent this for the
another users, yeah.

Olivier Doucet: Mm.

David Thomson: I wanted to show you something.

Andrei Aitzhanov: That's.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Oh.

Olivier Doucet: Yeah, go ahead.

David Thomson: So just so you know,
because it's it's going on there,

Andrei Aitzhanov: Sure.

David Thomson: can I share my screen a second?
It's it's good we do this admin stuff.

Olivier Doucet: Yeah, yeah, go ahead.

David Thomson: So I I was very frustrated that the
information about UP is like not very

David Thomson: accessible.
It's it's spread out all over the place.

David Thomson: So I I learned this from the last two
jobs.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Hmm.

David Thomson: The the previous start-up was using
Notion and this is something called

David Thomson: Microsoft Loop which is like a copy of of
Notion.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Mhm, no.

David Thomson: And basically I I put you know I I will
put everything in here for for my team at

David Thomson: least.

David Thomson: It might be good if we just combine
together, but.

Olivier Doucet: Mhm.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Mhm.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Yeah.

Olivier Doucet: Absolutely. I mean,
we can use this as well.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Yeah, yeah, yeah.

David Thomson: So this is like the intention of this is
I will share this not with all ramble but

Andrei Aitzhanov: Mhm.

David Thomson: with IDT leads head of DDP at that level
so that you know we have here like what

David Thomson: is UPE?

David Thomson: I've got something about the the
governance, the scope.

David Thomson: The reason I did this is I have to
deliver a road map next Wednesday for UPE,

Andrei Aitzhanov: Yeah.

David Thomson: which is like backwards.
I'm not really in a position to give a

David Thomson: road map.

Olivier Doucet: It it's a yeah, it's really short.

David Thomson: But I started to, yeah,
I started to make this multi generational

David Thomson: platform plan. It's it's basically covers.
If you look at these rows,

David Thomson: it's like what's the platform state,
what's the underlying technology so.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Mhm.

David Thomson: You know,
something about the platforms we use.

Olivier Doucet: Mm.

David Thomson: Microsoft is in here,
information backbone process and

David Thomson: standards governance and then the core
UPE capabilities.

David Thomson: I actually took what we did on the last
session and I've, you know,

David Thomson: I've got some of those things in here.

David Thomson: Then I'm going to make sure the
requirements are from the GPAS here.

David Thomson: The idea is they they add their
requirements there.

David Thomson: I don't need to chase them if that works.
And then like I'm using this for the

Olivier Doucet: Awesome.

David Thomson: project,
basically a sort of project management of

David Thomson: the whole thing.

David Thomson: So we could and like technical strategy
and architecture is more or less what

Andrei Aitzhanov: It's.

David Thomson: we've been working on.
So I could just give you access to that

David Thomson: and we can start to add.
We could just put a link to your MD file

David Thomson: in there.

Olivier Doucet: Yeah, definitely I can.
I I was experiencing some issues now,

Andrei Aitzhanov: No, that's.

Olivier Doucet: but I'll fix that and then it will be
actually published.

Olivier Doucet: So I can give you a link even and if you
go there,

David Thomson: Yeah, that's fine.

Olivier Doucet: I think everyone should be able to to
view it, not necessarily edit,

Olivier Doucet: but at least they will be able to to
consume it.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Mhm. OK.

David Thomson: Yeah, I mean,
I my team is not very technical,

David Thomson: the people who report to me and I kind of
consider you guys like as the solution

David Thomson: architects, like so far unofficial,
but that that's how I consider you sort

David Thomson: of in the team.

Olivier Doucet: Mm.

David Thomson: And um.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Yeah.

David Thomson: Yeah,
so maybe I just give you access to this

David Thomson: and we can use this like a wiki.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
It's very similar to confluence concept.

Olivier Doucet: Yeah.

David Thomson: Yeah, Confluence,
Confluence and and Notions is very

Andrei Aitzhanov: Similar now.

David Thomson: similar and you know everything is nice
because you can it's fully integrated in

David Thomson: the Microsoft. So you can turn this,
you can turn each thing into like into a

Andrei Aitzhanov: Microsoft.

David Thomson: component and then you can share an
e-mail and.

David Thomson: Teams and chats and it's it's the same
thing referred to behind the scenes.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Mhm.

David Thomson: It's like database approach to text.

Olivier Doucet: Let's use this.
I think it's awesome because I I I heard

Andrei Aitzhanov: Yeah.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Yeah.

Olivier Doucet: about it,
but I have never had a chance to really

Olivier Doucet: play with it, so yeah, happy to to use it.

Andrei Aitzhanov: No, no, it's very powerful thing. Yeah.
And this is another good idea that I

Andrei Aitzhanov: don't know if we can connect this to the
Microsoft Teams schedule scheduler or or

Andrei Aitzhanov: something like that just to have Kanban
board and we can use these for.

David Thomson: Yeah.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Or like a sprint sessions. Yeah,
we have a not now maybe,

David Thomson: Yeah.

Andrei Aitzhanov: but in the future,
once we will get some dedicated tasks,

Andrei Aitzhanov: we can define who will do of what and we
can integrate here as well these things.

David Thomson: Yeah.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Yeah, it's working.

David Thomson: Yeah,
this is the only problem I had with this

Andrei Aitzhanov: Very, very nice.

David Thomson: because you have Kanban as loop
components,

David Thomson: but it's it's not the same as the
Microsoft Tasks Planner. Sorry.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Mm.

Olivier Doucet: Oh.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Uh, OK, OK, OK, OK.

David Thomson: So this is where Microsoft screwed up
like they you can actually take a planner

Olivier Doucet: Mm.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Uh huh.

David Thomson: board and and paste it in here as a
component so that that works but we we

David Thomson: figure out.
But you can see it's got everything you

David Thomson: need. I shared it with you.

Andrei Aitzhanov: No.

David Thomson: Already this thing here.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Yeah, perfect. Perfect. Yeah,
that's really nice. OK,

Olivier Doucet: Perfect. Thank you, David.

David Thomson: Alright.

Andrei Aitzhanov: so maybe then we can finalised for now.
So because I have to go, but.

Olivier Doucet: No.

David Thomson: Yeah, and.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Yep.

David Thomson: And maybe Olivier,
I don't know if you had any next thoughts,

David Thomson: but we we could just delay till the next
session.

Olivier Doucet: Yeah, yeah, we can take it.
I just wanted to react on on your point

David Thomson: I think it's good to do some of this
admin.

Olivier Doucet: earlier about the GBA is that they should
feel included and not like something

Olivier Doucet: global is going to be imposed on them and
I think it's a very,

David Thomson: Yeah.

Olivier Doucet: very good concern to have,
but at the same time I think.

Olivier Doucet: We should use use and ask them,
you know what what do you have good that

David Thomson: Yeah.

Olivier Doucet: we can reuse because it's it's also about
taking what works and maybe reusing for

Olivier Doucet: other GPS.

Olivier Doucet: And and not they were around so.

David Thomson: So I.

David Thomson: Yeah,
the the final kind of piece of

David Thomson: information is I will run a a kick off
for the GPAS basically in Copenhagen the

David Thomson: week of the 16th of February.
Probably it's some people on site,

David Thomson: some people remote.

David Thomson: So I haven't planned it yet,
but that that's intention is to bring

David Thomson: those,
I think it's IDT directors and then the

David Thomson: the head office DDP will will invite
directly.

Andrei Aitzhanov: M.

David Thomson: And the idea is I think because there's
been some history,

David Thomson: we'll just try to restart the process and
say, OK, is everybody aligned?

David Thomson: Um.

Olivier Doucet: Mm.

David Thomson: But that's, you know,
I said I I haven't really told too many

Andrei Aitzhanov: OK.

David Thomson: people,
but I think we should run what we're

David Thomson: doing in parallel because for me,
like I said,

David Thomson: it's basically like solution architecture
is being done and even if there's some

David Thomson: changes on the high level.

David Thomson: I don't think it changes these
fundamental capabilities and the the

David Thomson: architecture like,
so it's it's good that we get ahead with

Olivier Doucet: Mhm.

David Thomson: this this work as well. But yeah, Andre,
good luck delivering your your things.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Yeah, thank you. Thank you guys. Yeah.
But I I think that it's really important

Andrei Aitzhanov: to have this retrospective session with
the ITS because then we could at least

Andrei Aitzhanov: refresh the status.
I understand what they did before because

David Thomson: Yeah.

Andrei Aitzhanov: I know that there are a lot of
initiatives internally in G Base and

Andrei Aitzhanov: nobody else can.

Andrei Aitzhanov: Explain what they are doing.
So we need to exchange and and

David Thomson: Yeah.

Andrei Aitzhanov: synchronize our understanding what we are
doing together. Yeah,

Andrei Aitzhanov: that's very important.
I fully agree with that, yeah.

Olivier Doucet: Thank you. Yeah. Bye-bye.

